本书下载于txtba小说吧,仅供读者预览,如喜欢请购买正版
如果认为本站侵犯了您的权益,请来信告知,我们会立即删除!
更多小说请关注www.txtba.com



1  The mysterious door

  

Mr Utterson the lawyer was a quiet, serious man. Hewas shy with strangers and afraid of showing his feelings. Among friends, however, his eyes shone with kindnessand goodness.And, although this goodness never found itsway into his conversation, it showed itself in his way of life.He did not allow himself many enjoyable things in life. He ateand drank simply and, although he enjoyed the theatre,hehad not been to a play for twenty years. However, he wasgentler towards other men' s weaknesses,and was alwaysready to help rather than blame them. As a lawyer, he was often the last good person that evil-doers met on their way toprison,or worse. These people often carried with them memories of his politeness and fairness.

Mr Utterson's best friend was a distant cousin calledRichard Enfield,who was well known as a fun-loving 'manabout town'.Nobody could understand why they werefriends, as they were different from each other in every way.They often took long walks together,however, marchingthrough the streets of London in companionable silence.

One of these walks used to take them down a narrow sidestreet in a busy part of London. It was a clean, busy, friendlystreet with bright little shops and shiny doorknockers. Nearthe end of this street, however, stood a dark, mysterious,windowless building.The door had neither bell nor knockerand looked dusty and uncared for. Dirty children played fearlessly on the doorstep, and nobody ever opened the door todrive them away.

One day,as Mr Enfield and his friend passed the building,Mr Enfield pointed to it.

'Have you ever noticed that place?'he asked.'It remindsme of a very strange story.'

'Really?'said Mr Utterson.'Tell me.'

'Well,'began Enfield,'I was coming home about threeo'clock on a black winter morning,when suddenly I saw twopeople.The first was a short man who was walking along thestreet,and the second was a little girl who was running as fastas she could. Well,the two bumped into each other and thechild fell down.Then a terrible thing happened.The mancalmly walked all over the child's body with his heavy boots,and left her screaming on the ground.It was an inhuman thingto do.I ran after the man, caught him and fetched him back.There was already a small crowd around the screaming child.The man was perfectly cool, but he gave me a very evil look,which made me feel sick in my stomach.The child's familythen arrived, and also a doctor. The child had been sent tofetch the doctor for a sick neighbour,and was on her wayhome again.

'“The child is more frightened than hurt,”said thedoctor-and that, you would think, was the end of the story.But, you see,I had taken a violent dislike to the short man.So had the child's family-that was only natural.But the doctor, who seemed a quiet, kindly man, was also looking at ourprisoner with murder in his eyes.

'The doctor and I understood each other perfectly.Together we shouted at the man, and told him we would tell this story all over London so that his name would be hated.

'He looked back at us with a proud,blach look.“Nameyour price,”he said.

'We made him agree to a hundred pounds for the child' sfamily. With another black look, the man led us to that doorover there.He took out a key and let himself into thebuilding.Presently he came out and handed us ten pounds ingold and a cheque for ninety pounds from Coutts's Bank. Thename on the cheque was a well-known one.

'“See here,”said the doctor doubtfully,“it isn't usual for aman to walk into an empty house at four in the morning andcome out with another man's cheque for nearly a hundredpounds.”

'“Don't worry,”said the man with an ugly look,“I'll staywith you until the banks open,and

change the chequemyself.”

'So we all went off, the doctor and the prisoner and myself,and spent the rest of the night at my house.In the morningwe went together to the bank. Sure enough, the cheque wasgood, and the money was passed to the child's family.'

'Well,well,'said Mr Utterson.

'Yes,'said Enfield,'it's a strange story.My prisoner wasclearly a hard, cruel man. But the man whose name was onthe cheque was well known all over London for his kind andgenerous acts.Why would a man like that give his cheque to acriminal?'

'And you don't know if the writer of the cheque lives inthat building?'asked Mr Utterson.

'I don't like to ask,'said his friend.'In my experience,it's not a good idea to ask too many questions,in case the answers are ugly,violent ones.But I've studied the place alittle.It doesn't seem like a house. There's no other door,and the only person who uses that door is the man I've just described to you.There are three windows on the side of thehouse,which look down onto a small courtyard.The windowsare shut,but they're always clean.There's a chimney too,which is usually smoking.So somebody must live there.'

The two men continued on their walk. Then Utterson brokethe silence.

'Enfield,'he said,'you're right about not asking toomany questions.However,I want to ask the name of the manwho walked over the child.'

'Very well,' said Enfield.'He told us his name wasHyde.'

'What does he look like?'

'He's not easy to describe, although I remember him perfectly.He's a strange-looking man.He's short,but has astrong, heavy body.There's something wrong with his appearance,something ugly and unpleasing-no,somethinghateful.I disliked him at once.'

Mr Utterson thought deeply.'Are you sure he used a key?'he asked.

'What do you mean?'asked Enfield in surprise.

'I know it must seem strange,'said his friend.'But yousee, if I don't ask you the name on the cheque, it's because Iknow it already…'

'Well, why didn't you tell me?'said his friend rathercrossly.'Anyway, he did have a key, and he still has it. Isaw him use it only a week ago.'

Mr Utterson looked at him thoughtfully,but said nothingmore.

  



 
2  In search of Mr Hyde

  

After dinner that evening Mr Utterson went into his office and unlocked a cupboard. He took out an envelope.It contained the will of Doctor Henry Jekyll,and was writtenin the doctor's own handwriting.

'If I die,or if I disappear for more than three months,'thewill began,'I wish to leave everything I own to my dearfriend Edward Hyde.'

This will had both worried and annoyed Mr Utterson. To alawyer it was an unusual and dangerous kind of will. It wasbad enough when Edward Hyde was only an unknown name,but now that the lawyer knew something about Hyde, the willworried him more than ever. It had seemed like madness before；now it began to seem shameful. With a heavy heart MrUtterson replaced the envelope in the cupboard,put on hiscoat and went to see his old friend Doctor Lanyon.

Doctor Lanyon was enjoying his after-dinner coffee.'Comein,old friend!' he cried. The two men had known each othersince their school days.They sat for several minutes,drinkingcoffee and talking companionably of this and that. At last MrUtterson mentioned the thoughts that were worrying him.

'I suppose,Lanyon,'he said,'that you and I are HenryJekyll's oldest friends?'

'I suppose so,'said Doctor Lanyon,'but I don't often seehim now.'

'Really?' said Mr Utterson in surprise.'I thought you andhe were interested in the same things.'

'We were at one time,'said Doctor Lanyon.'But morethan ten years ago Henry Jekyll became too-well,imaginativefor me. He developed some strange,wild, unscientific ideas. Itold him so,and I've seen very little of him since then.'

Mr Utterson looked at his friend's red, angry face.'Only adisagreement about some scientific question,'he thought.'It's nothing worse than that.' Calmly he continued,'Didyou ever meet a friend of Jekyll's a man called Hyde?'

'Hyde?'repeated Lanyon.'No, never.'

Soon the lawyer said goodnight and went home to bed,where he lay awake for a long time thinking about Enfield's description of Hyde,and Doctor Jekyll's will.When at last hefell asleep,he was troubled by dreams. In his mind's eye hesaw a faceless man marching over the child's body.Then hesaw his old friend Jekyll in bed,while the same faceless figurestood over him.The facelessness of that figure worried himdeeply.

'Very well,Mr Hyde,'said the lawyer to himself,'I willfind you,and I will see your face for myself.'

During the next few weeks Mr Utterson spent many hoursin the narrow street where Enfield had seen Hyde.He waitedpatiently near the mysterious door, hoping for a sight of MrHyde-and one dry, clear winter night he was successful.The street was empty and silent and small sounds carried along way.The lawyer heard footsteps. He stepped back intothe shadows and waited.A short figure turned the corner andwalked towards the mysterious door. Although Mr Uttersoncould not see his face, he felt a strong, almost violent, dislikefor the stranger.

Mr Utterson stepped forward and touched him on the shoulder.'Mr Hyde?'

'Yes,that's my name,'said the stranger coolly.' What doyou want?'

'I see that you're going in.I'm an old friend of DoctorJekyll's.My name is Utterson.You must have heard myname-may I come in with you?'

'Doctor Jekyll is not at home,'replied Mr Hyde.'How didyou know me?'he added sharply.

'First let me see your face,'replied the lawyer.

Mr Hyde hesitated for a moment, then he stood under thestreet light and the lawyer saw his face.'Thank you,' saidMr Utterson.'Now I shall know you again. It may beuseful.'

'Yes,'said Mr Hyde,'it may indeed be useful.Here,too,is my address.You may need it one day.'He gave the lawyerhis address,which was in a poor part of London.

'Good God!'thought the lawyer,'does Hyde know aboutJekyll's will?Is that what he's thinking of?'But he saidnothing.

'And now,'said Mr Hyde,'How did you know me?'

'You were described to me.'

'Who did that?'

'I know people who know you.'

'Who?' asked Mr Hyde sharply.

'Doctor Jekyll,for example,'said the lawyer.

'He never told you!'cried Mr Hyde in sudden anger.'Don't lie to me!'And before the lawyer could answer, heturned the key in the lock and disappeared into the house.

Mr Utterson stared at the closed door.'Why do I dislikehim so much?'he said to himself.'Enfield was right-thereis something evil about the man.Poor Henry Jekyll,I'm worried about you. Your new friend will mean trouble for you.'

Round the corner from the narrow street there was a squareof handsome old houses.One of these was Doctor.Jekyll's house,and Mr Utterson knocked at the front door. The servant answered and told him that Doctor Jekyll was not athome.

'I saw Mr Hyde go in by the laboratory door in the street atthe back of the house, said the lawyer.

'That's right,Mr Utterson,'replied the servant. 'MrHyde has his own key, and comes and goes when he likes. Wehave orders from Doctor Jekyll to obey him.'

Mr Utterson walked home more worried than ever.

A fortnight later Doctor Jekyll gave a dinner party for a fewold friends.Mr Utterson was among them and he remained after the others had left.

'I've been wanting to speak to you for some time,Jekyll,'said the lawyer,'about your will.'

Doctor Jekyll was a tall, well－made man of fifty with asmooth, kindly face.'My poor friend,'he said,'you doworry unnecessarily, you know. Like poor Lanyon when Itold him about my new ideas.“Imaginative rubbish”he calledthem… I'm very disappointed in Lanyon.'

But the lawyer did not want to talk about Doctor Lanyon.'You know I've never agreed with your will,'he continued.'You've told me often enough,'said his friend sharply.

'Well,I've learnt something about your friend Hyde,'continued the lawyer.

The colour of the doctor's handsome face changed from pinkto greyish-white.'I don't want to hear any more,'he said.'You don't understand. I'm in a very difficult,painful situation.

'Tell me everything,'said Mr Utterson,'and I'll do mybest to help you.'

'You're very kind,but this is a private matter.I'll tell youone thing-I can get rid of Mr Hyde any time I want. Youmust understand,however, that I take a great interest in poorHyde.I know you've seen him-he told me, and I'm afraidhe wasn't very polite to you. But I really do care about him.And if anything happens to me,I want you to promise tomake sure that he inherits my money.'

'I cannot pretend that I shall ever like him,' said thelawyer.

'I'm not asking you to like him,'said his friend.'I onlyask you to help him,when I'm gone.'

'I promise,'said Mr Utterson sadly.

  



 


3  The Carew murder

  

One night in London,nearly a year later, a servant girlwas sitting at her bedroom window, looking out at themoonlit street. She saw a tall, handsome old man with whitehair coming along the street,and a shorter,younger manwalkingtowardshim.The old man spoke politely to theyounger one. He seemed, the girl said later, to be asking hisway. Then the girl looked more closely at the younger manand recognized him.

'It was Mr Hyde, 'she said later.'He once visited my master.'

Mr Hyde, the girl said, was carrying a heavy stick. He wasplaying with it impatiently as he listened to the old man. Thensuddenly he seemed to explode with anger.

'He was like a madman,'the servant girl said.' He shookhis stick at the old man,who stepped back in surprise. Thenhe hit the old man violently with the stick and knocked him tothe ground. He beat the helpless body again and again. I couldhear the bones breaking… It was so terrible that I began tofeel ill.Then everything went black and I don't remember anymore.'

It was two o'clock in the morning before she was consciousagain, and able to call the police. The murderer had disappeared,but the dead man was still lying on the ground withthe murder weapon beside him.The stick had broken in themiddle, and one half still lay beside the murdered man. Thepolice decided that the murderer had carried away the otherhalf.A gold watch and a purse were found in the dead man'spockets, but no cards or papersexcept a letter addressed toMr Utterson.

A policeman brought this letter to the lawyer the nextmorning.Together they drove to the police station where thebody had been taken.

A police inspector showed him the body.

'Yes,I recognize him,'said Mr Utterson heavily.'He isSir Danvers Carew.'

'Thank you, sir,'said the inspector.'And do you recognizethis?' He showed Mr Utterson the broken stick and told himthe servant girl's story.

Mr Utterson knew the stick at once.'That's HenryJekyll's stick!'he said to himself.'I gave it to him long ago.'

'Is this Hyde a short, evil－looking man?'he asked.

'That's how the servant girl described him, sir,'agreed theinspector.

'Come with me,'said Mr Utterson to the inspector.'Ithink I know where he lives.'

Mr Utterson led him to the address on Mr Hyde' s visitingcard.It was in a poor part of London,in a dirty street full ofcheap bars and eating－houses. This was the home of HenryJekyll's favourite friend-the man who would inherit Jekyll'squarter of a million pounds.

An old servant opened the door.Under her silvery hair wasa smooth face with a false smile and evil eyes, but she was polite enough.

'Yes,'she said,'Mr Hyde lives here.But he's not athome. My master came in very late last night.He left againafter only an hour.'

'Was that unusual?'asked the inspector.

'Not at all,'replied the servant.'He's often away,andfrequently stays away for months at a time.'

'We would like to see his flat,'said Mr Utterson.

'Oh,I can't do that,sir-'began the servant.

'This gentleman is a police inspector,'said Mr Utterson.

'Ah!' said the servant,looking unnaturally pleased aboutit,' Mr Hyde's in trouble!What's he done?'

Mr Utterson and the inspector looked at each other.'Hedoesn't seem a very popular person,'said the inspector.Heturned to the servant.'Now please let us in and we'll have alook around.'

Mr Hyde had only two rooms in the house.These were extremely comfortable and in excellent taste,with beautiful pictures on the walls and rich carpets on the floor.Everythingwas wildly untidy,however,and the fireplace was full of halfburnt papers. Among these the detective found part of acheque book.He also found the other half of the murderweapon.

'Excellent!'he said.'Now let's visit the bank and see ifthey recognize this cheque book.'

Sure enough, the bank held several thousand pounds in anaccount in the name of Edward Hyde.

'We've got him now, sir,'said the inspector.'We've gotthe murder weapon,and we've got his cheque book. Now weonly need his description on the“Wanted”notices.'

This was not so easy. There were no photographs of thewanted man and no two people could agree about his appearance.They all agreed on one thing, however.'An evil man,sir,'the servant girl said.'You could see it in his face.'

  
4  Doctor Jekyll receives a letter

  

Later that same afternoon Mr Utterson found his way toDoctor Jekyll's house.Jekyll's servant, Poole, let himin at once and took him through the kitchen and across theback garden to the laboratory behind the house.It was thefirst time that Mr Utterson had seen his friend's laboratory,and he looked around curiously.

The old servant led Mr Utterson through the laboratory andup some stairs to the doctor's private study above.This was alarge room with tall, glass－fronted cupboards, a large mirrorand a big,businesslike table.A good fire burned in the fireplace and beside it sat Doctor Jekyll, looking white and ill. Ina thin, tired voice he welcomed his friend.

'Have you heard the news?'said Mr Utterson after the oldservant had left.

'The newsboys were shouting about it in the street,'DoctorJekyll said.'A terrible business.'

'Let me ask you something,'said the lawyer.'Sir DanversCarew was my client, but you are my client too,and I want toknow what I'm doing.You haven't tried to hide the murderer, have you?'

'Utterson,I promise you,'cried the doctor,'I promise youI'll never see him again. I've finished with him for ever. Andnow, indeed, he no longer needs my help.You don't knowhim like I do. He's safe, quite safe.Believe me,nobody willever hear of Hyde again.'

The lawyer listened with a serious face. He did not like hisfriend's feverish, excited look.

'You seem very sure of him,'he replied.'I hope you'reright.If he is caught and comes to trial,your name may bementioned.'

'I'm absolutely sure of him,' answered Jekyll.' I can't tellyou how I know,

but I'm certain. But can you please adviseme about one thing?I've received a letter and I don't knowwhether to show it to the police.May I leave it in your hands,Utterson?'

'You're afraid,I suppose, that the letter will lead the police to Hyde?'asked the lawyer.

'No,'said Doctor Jekyll.'I don't care what happens toHyde.I was thinking of my own reputation… Anyway,here is the letter.'

It was written in a strange,pointed handwriting and signed'Edward Hyde'.'I am sorry that I have been so ungrateful inthe past for your many generous acts,'it began.'Please don't worry about me.I am quite safe and I am certain that I can escape unharmed whenever I wish.'

'Did this letter come by post?'asked the lawyer.

'No,'replied Doctor Jekyll.'There was no postmark on theenvelope.The letter came by hand.'

'Shall I keep the letter and think about it?'asked Mr Utterson.

'I want you to decide for me,'answered his client.'I' mnot sure of anything any more.'

'Very well,'said the lawyer.'Now tell me-the part inyour will about disappearing for three months or more. Wasthat Hyde's idea?'

'It was,'whispered Doctor Jekyll.

'He was planning to murder you,'said the lawyer.'You've had a lucky escape.'

'I've had a lesson too,'said his client, in pain and sadness.'Oh, what a lesson!' And he covered his face with his hands.

On his way ont of the house, the lawyer stopped and spoketo Poole.

'By the way,'he said, 'a letter was handed in today foryour master. Who brought it, and what did he look like?'

'Nobody came except the postman, sir,'said the servant insurprise.

'That worries me,'thought Mr Utterson as he walkedhome.'Clearly the letter arrived by the laboratory door； perhaps it was even written in the study. I must think about thiscarefully.'

In the street the newsboys were still shouting,'Read allabout it!Terrible murder!'

The lawyer's thoughts were sad. One of his clients wasdead,and the life and reputation of another were in danger.Mr Utterson did not

usually ask anyone for advice. Today,however,was different.

That evening he sat by his fireside with his chief clerk, MrGuest,beside him.The lawyer and his clerk had worked together for many years, and knew and understood each other,Also, Mr Guest had been involved in business with DoctorJekyll and knew him well.

Outside it was foggy and dark,but the room was bright andwarm and there was a bottle of good whisky on the table,

'This is a sad business about Sir Danvers Carew,'said MrUtterson.

'Yes indeed,sir.The murderer was a madman,of course.'

'I would like your opinion about that,'replied the lawyer.'I have a letter from the murderer here.'

Mr Guest was interested in the study of handwriting. Hiseyes brightened at once.'A murderer's letter!' he said.'That will be interesting.'He looked carefully at the writing.'Not a madman, I think,'he said.'But what unusual handwriting!'

Just then a servant entered with a note.

'Is that note from Doctor Jekyll?' asked Mr Guest.'Ithought I recognized the handwriting.Is it anything private,Mr Utterson?'

'Only an invitation to dinner.Why?Do you want to seethe letter?'

'Just for a moment,please,sir.'The clerk put the two letters side by side and studied them carefully.'Thank you,sir,'he said.'Very interesting.'

For a moment Mr Utterson hesitated,wondering and worrying.At last he put his thoughts into words.'Why did youlook at the two letters together?'he asked.

'Well,sir,in many ways the two are surprisingly similar.'

'How strange!…Mr Guest,I must ask you not to speakof this business to anyone.'

'Of course not,sir,'said the clerk.'You can depend onme.'Shortly afterwards he said good night to his master andmade his way home.

When he was alone,Mr Utterson locked the two letters inhis cupboard.'Well!'he thought.'So Henry Jekyll wrotethat letter for a murderer!'His face was as calm and expressionless as usual,but his heart was filled with fear for his oldfriend.

  



 



5  The death of a friend

  

Time passed.The search for Mr Hyde continued.SirDanvers Carew was an important and popular man andthe police tried desperately to arrest the murderer and bringhim to trial.But there was no sign of Mr Hyde himself, although the police and the newspapers discovered a lot about hispast life.Nobody,it seemed,could say one good word aboutthe wanted man. He was a cruel, violent man, who had livedan evil life full of hate and jealousy.None of this, however,was any help to the police. Mr Hyde had just disappeared.

As time went by, Mr Utterson became calmer and more atpeace with himself. He was truly sorry that his client, SirDanvers Carew, was dead, but he was also very glad that MrHyde had disappeared. As for Doctor Jekyll, he too appearedcalmer and happier.He came out into the world again.He invited friends to his house and accepted invitations to theirs. Hehad always been a good and generous man.Now,however,hebecame a churchgoer too. He was busy, he spent a lot of timein the fresh air and he looked happy and carefree.For morethan two months he was at peace with himself and the world.

On the 8th of January Mr Utterson was invited to dinner atDoctor Jekyll's house.Doctor Lanyon was there too.'This isquite like old times,'thought the lawyer as he watched DoctorJekyll smiling at Doctor Lanyon.

On January 12th,however,and again on the 14th, DoctorJekyll refused to see visitors.

'The doctor is not well,'explained Poole.'He hopes youwill forgive him,but he cannot see anyone.'

Mr Utterson called again next day, and again the day afterthat.After two months of almost daily meetings with his oldfriend,the lawyer felt rather lonely.On the sixth evening heinvited his clerk,Mr Guest,to dinner with him, and on theseventh night he went to visit Doctor Lanyon.

Doctor Lanyon made him welcome,but Mr Utterson wasshocked by the change in the doctor's appearance.His face,which was usually pink and healthy, was grey and thin, andthere was a frightened look in his eyes. He was suddenly anold,sick man.

'He looks,'said Mr Utterson to himself,'like a man whoknows he's dying.'

'How are you,Lanyon?'he said.'You don't look well.'

'I've had a shock,Utterson,'replied Doctor Lanyon.'Andit will cause my death.I have only a few weeks to live.'Hepaused.'Well,it comes to us all sooner or later. I've had agood life, on the whole.'

'Jekyll is ill too,'said the lawyer.'Have you seen him?'

At the name of Jekyll the look on Doctor Lanyon's face changed.'Please,'he said, holding up a trembling hand,'don't speak that name in this house.'

'Oh dear,'said Mr Utterson.He hesitated for a moment.'The three of us have been friends all our lives,Lanyon.Weare too old now to make new friends.Can't you forgive andforget?Perhaps I can help?'

'Nothing can be done,'replied Doctor Lanyon.'Ask himyourself.'

'He won't let me into the house.'

'That doesn't surprise me, One day,Utterson, after I amdead,you will perhaps learn the full story. Meanwhile, if youcan sit and talk to me of other things, please stay. Just don't mention that person, as it hurts me to think about him.'

As soon as he got home, Mr Utterson wrote to DoctorJekyll.In his letter he asked why Jekyll refused to let him intohis house,and why he and Doctor Lanyon were no longerfriendly.The reply was long and not always easy to understand.

'I'm not angry with our old friend,'Doctor Jekyll wrote,'but I agree with him that the two of us must never meetagain.Meanwhile,you must forgive me if from now on I livea very quiet life. If you find my door closed to you,it's because I must travel this dark,dangerous road alone. I havedone wrong and I'm being punished for it,and nobody canhelp me.'

'What is this?'thought Mr Utterson.'Hyde has disappeared.Jekyll is his normal self again-at least,he was untillast week. Has he gone mad?'Then he remembered DoctorLanyon's words.'There is something more,'he said to himself,'something mysterious, but I have no idea what it is.'

A week later Doctor Lanyon was too ill to leave his bed.Two weeks after that he was dead. After his friend's burial,Mr Utterson went home and into his office.From his lockedcupboard he took out an envelope, which he had received soonafter his friend' s death.

In Doctor Lanyon's handwriting he read 'G.J.Utterson.Private.'The lawyer turned the envelope over and over in hishands before he opened it.What terrible news could itcontain? With trembling hands Mr Utterson opened the envelope. Inside was another envelope, with the words'Not to beopened until the death or disappearance of Doctor HenryJekyll.'

The lawyer could not believe his eyes.'Death or disappearance'the words were the same as in Doctor Jekyll's will.'Iunderstand why Jekyll wrote those words,'said Mr Uttersonto himself.'But why did Lanyon write them too?'For a moment he wanted to open the envelope and uncover the mysterythere and then. But Mr Utterson was too honest a man and alawyer to do that. He knew he must obey his friend's andclient's last wish. He locked the envelope away in his cupboard beside Doctor Jekyll's will.

The lawyer was desperately worried about his friend DoctorJekyll. He was afraid for him too. He called at the house butthe doctor always refused to see him.

'How is he,Poole?'Mr Utterson asked the old servant oneday.

'Not very well,sir.He spends all his time in the studyabove his laboratory.He sleeps there as well. He seems verysilent and uneasy. Something is worrying him, sir,

but hewon't tell anyone.'

For a long time the lawyer called almost every day. Little bylittle,however, he became tired of his friend's refusal to seehim, and his visits became less frequent.

  



 


6  The face at the window

  

One Sunday soon afterwards Mr Utterson was walkingwith his friend Enfield when they happened to passthrough the narrow side-street again. Enfleld pointed to themysterious door.

'Well,'he said,'that story is finished.We shall never seeMr Hyde again.'

'I hope you're right,'said the lawyer.'Did I tell you? Ionce saw Hyde too and had the same strong feelings of dislikefor him as you did.What an evil man!'

'I agree,'said his friend.'By the way, why didn't you tellme that our mysterious door led to the laboratory at the back ofDoctor Jekyll's house?I didn't know then,but I know now.'

'Well,now that you know,let's go into the courtyard andlook up at his window.I must tell you,'I'm worried aboutpoor Jekyll.Perhaps the sight of a friendly face will do himgood.'

Overhead the evening sky was bright,but the courtyard wascool and dark.At an open window of the study above the laboratory, Doctor Jekyll sat, like a prisoner staring at the worldoutside.

'I hope you are better,Jekyll,'the lawyer called up to him.

The doctor shook his head sadly.'I'm not well,Utterson,'he said.'I shall not be here much longer－thankGod.'

'You spend too much time indoors!You ought to get outinto the fresh air like Enfield and me… By the way, this ismy cousin, Mr Enfield… COme now-get your hat and join usfor a quick walk.'

'You 're very kind,'said the doctor.'But no, it's quiteimpossible. I would like to invite you and Mr Enfield inside,but the place is not very tidy…'

'Well then,'said the lawyer gently,'we can talk to youfrom here.'

'That's an excellent idea-'began the doctor,with asmile.But suddenly the smile left his face and was replaced byan expression of hopelessness, fear and horror. The two menbelow saw it,but only for a second, as the window was shutwith a bang. The two men looked at each other, then turnedand left the courtyard without a word.In silence they crossedthe narrow side-street.They did not speak until they came outinto a busy, noisy street. Then Mr Utterson at last turned andlooked at his companion, whose face was as pale as his own.The expression on Doctor Jekyll's face had upset them bothdeeply.

'God help him!'whispered Mr Utterson.'God help thepoor man!'

But Mr Enfield only nodded his head very seriously andwalked on without a word.

  



 

7  The last night

  

It was now March, and Mr Utterson was sitting by thefire after dinner,when he was surprised to receive avisitfrom Doctor Jekyll's servant,Poole.The old man looked paleand frightened.

'Mr Utterson,he said,'something is wrong.'

'Sit down by the fire and tell me all abut it.'

'The doctor's locked himself up in his study, sir.'

'That's quite usual, surely,' said the lawyer. 'You knowyour master's habits as well as I do.He often shuts himselfaway from the world.'

'Yes,but this time it's different. It frightens me, sirI've been frightened for more than a week now, and I justcan't go on any longer.

He stopped and stared down at the floor.

'Try and tell me, Poole,'said Mr Utterson gently. 'Something terrible is happening to my master.I can't explain. But… please,sir,can you come with me and see foryourself?'

At once Mr Utterson fetched his coat and hat.

'Thank you, sir,'whispered Poole gratefully.

Together they made their way to Doctor Jekyll's house. Itwas a wild,stormy night.To Mr Utterson the streets seemedstrangely empty and lonely. The square, when they reachedit, was full of wind and flying dust. The thin trees were blowing wildly, and untidy grey clouds were sailing past a pale,sickly moon.

'Well,sir,'said Poole,' here we are, and I hope that nothing is wrong.'He knocked softly at the front door. The doorwas opened just a little and a voice from inside asked,'Is thatyou,Poole?'

'Yes-open the door.'

The hall,when they entered,was brightly lit.A good firewas burning.The room was full of people-every servant inthe house was there.They looked like a crowd of frightenedchildren.

'What's all this?'said the lawyer.'What are you all doinghere? Your master would not be pleased.'

'They're frightened,'said Poole simply.No one elsespoke.A little servant girl began to cry.

'Quiet!'said Poole sharply,trying to control his own fear.'Now-fetch me a light and we'll finish this business at once.Mr Utterson, sir, please follow me.'He led the way across theback garden towards the laboratory.

'Come as quietly as you can, sir.I want you to hear, but Idon't want him to hear you.And sin－if he asks you to go inside-don't go!'

Mr Utterson's heart gave a little jump of fear, but hebravely followed the servant into the laboratory to the bottomof the stairs.

'Wait here, sir-and listen carefully,whispered Poole. Hehimself,again controlling his fear, climbed the stairs andknocked on the study door.

'Mr Utterson would like to see you, sir,'he called.

'Tell him I cannot see anyone,' said a voice from inside theStudy.

'Thank you,sir,'said Poole.He led Mr Utterson backacross the garden and into the house. 'Sir,'he said, 'was thatmy master's voice?'

The lawyer's face was pale. 'It has changed,'he said.

'Changed? You're right,'said Poole.'I've worked forDoctof Jekyll for twenty years.That was not my master's voice.Someone has murdered my master. Eight days ago weheard his voice for the last time.“Dear God!”he cried-thenno more.The voice you heard just now was the voice of hismuderer!'

'This is an extraordinary story, my good man,'said Mr Utterson. He tried hard to appear calm.'If Dr Jekyll has beenmurdered-why is his murderer still there? What reason couldhe possibly have for staying?'

'Perhaps you don't believe me, sir, but I know what Iheard.For a week now the person-or thing-in that studyhas been crying night and day for some special chemical powders.My master was in the habit,when he was particularlybusy with his scientific work,of writing orders on pieces ofpaper and leaving them on the stairs.'We've had nothing elsethis week, nothing except written orders and a locked door.I've been to every chemist in town in search of these chemicalsof his,but they were never right.They weren't pure enough,he said. I had to take them back to the shop,and try anotherchemist.I don't know what these chemicals are,but the person in that study wants them terribly badly.'

'Did you keep any of these written orders?'asked Mr Utterson.

Poole reached in his pocket and brought out a note.Thelawyer read it carefully.It said：'I am returning your chemicals,as they are impure and therefore useless.In the year18-you made up a mixture of chemical powders for DoctorHenry Jekyll. Please search your cupboards for some more ofthe same mixture and send it to Doctor Jekyll AT ONCE.Thisis VERY IMPORTANT.'

'This is a strange note,'said Mr Utterson.

'The chemist thought so too,' sir,'said Poole.'When I tookhim this note,he cried,“All my chemicals are pure,and youcan tell your master so!”and he threw the note back at me.'

'Are you sure this is your master's handwriting?' asked MrUtterson.

'Of course,sir,'said Poole.'But what does handwritingmatter? I've seen my master's murderer!'

'Seen him?'repeated Mr Utterson.

'Yes!It was like this.I came suddenly into the laboratoryfrom the garden.I think he had left the study to look forsomething.The study door was open and there he was at thefar end of the laboratory.He was searching among some oldboxes.He looked up when I came in, gave a kind of cry andran upstairs and into the study.I only saw him for a moment,but my blood seemed to freeze.Sir,if that was my master,why was he wearing a mask over his face? If it was my master, why did he cry out like a trapped animal and run awayfrom me? I've been his servant for twenty years.And then …'Poole paused,and covered his face with his hands,tooupset to speak.

'This is all very mysterious,'said Mr Utterson,' but I thinkI begin to understand.Your master, Poole,is ill.And the illness has changed his appearance.Perhaps that also explainsthe change in his voice.It certainly explains the mask and theway he has been avoiding his friends.And of course,he's searching for these chemicals he cause he believes they willmake him well again.Dear God,I hope he's right!PoorJekyll-thst is my explanation.It's sad enough,Poole,butit's normal and natural,and there's nothing to be alarmedabout.'

'Sir,'said the servant,'that…thing was not my master.My master is a tall,fine,well－built man.The stranger wasmuch shorter… Sir,I have been with my master for twentyyears and I know his appearance as well as I know my own.No,sir,that thing in the mask was never Doctor Jekyll, and Ibelieve that he-it-murdered my master!'

'Poole,'said the lawyer,if you say that, I must makesure. We must break down the study door.'

'You're right, Mr Utterson!'cried the old servant.

'Very well. Will you help me? If we are wrong, I'll makesure that you're not blamed for it.'

'There's an axe in the laboratory, suggested Poole.

'You realize, Poole,'said Mr Utterson,'that this may bedangerous for us both? Let us now be honest with each other.This masked figure that you saw-you're certain that it wasnot your master·'

'That's right, sir.'

'Did you in fact recognize it?'

'Well,sir,it was all so quick that I'm not really sure.But－well,I think it was Mr Hyde.It was short,like MrHyde, and it moved in the same light, quick, active way. Andwho else could come in by the laboratory door from the street?You must remember,sir,that at the time of the Carew murder Mr Hyde still had the laboratory key with him. But that's not all.Mr Utterson, did you ever meet Mr Hyde?'

'Yes,'replied the lawyer.'I once spoke with him.'

'Then you will know, sir,that there is something strangeabout Mr Hyde,something evil.'

'I agree with you,'said Mr Utterson.'I felt something likethst, too.'

'Yes,sir.Well,when that thing in the mask jumped outfrom behind the boxes and ran up the stairs,I had exactly thesame feeling.That thing behind the mask was Mr Hydee!'

'I understand,Poole,and I believe you,'said the lawyerslowly.'And I believe poor Henry Jekyll has been murdered.I believe too that his murderer is still hiding in the study.Now, Poole, let's go and make an end of it.'

Together they went out into the back garden.The cloudshad covered the moon and it was now quite dark. As theypassed silently by the wall of the laboratory, they stopped andlistened.Further away they could hear the everyday noises of aLondon evening. From the study above them, however,camethe sound of footsteps moving backwards and forwards acrossthe floor.

'It walks like that all day,sir,'whisperedPoole,'yes,andmost of the night too.It only stops when some more chemicalsarrive from the chemist.Ah, sir,listen to that-do you thinkthose are my master's footsteps?'

The short,light steps were indeed very different from Henry Jekyll's long,heavy ones.

'Have you anything else to tell me,Poole?'asked thelawyer heavily.

'Once,'said Poole,'I heard it weeping.'

'Weeping?'repeated Mr Utterson in horror.

'Weeping like a lost child,'said the old servant.'It tore myheart. I felt like weeping too.'

'well,'said the lawyer,'we have a job to do.'

They went into the laboratory and climbed the stairs to thestudy.'Jekyll,'called the lawyer in a loud voice,'I must seeyou.'He paused for a moment,but there was no reply.'Ifyou refuse to let me in, then I'll break dowu the door!'

'Utterson,'said a voice from inside the study,'I beg you toleave me alone!'

'That's not Jekyll's voice!' shied Mr Utterson. 'It's Hyde's!Break the door down, Poole !'

The axe rose and fell.The door shook and a scream of purefear,like a trapped animal,rang from the study. Again theaxe crashed against the door.But the wood was strong and thelock was well made.At last, however, the door fell inwardsupon the carpet.

The two men stared into the study.They saw a warm,comfortable room with a good fire burning in the fireplace anda few papers on the big table. A friendly, homely room. Butface down in the middle of the floor there lay the body of aman.The lawyer turned it over on its back and saw the face ofEdward Hyde. He was dressed in clothes that were much toolarge for him, and in his hand he held a small bottle.

The lawyer shook his head.'He's taken poison, Poole, hesaid.'I fear we've come too late to save Doctor Jekyll, andtoo late to punish his murderer too. Now we must find yourmaster's body.'

They searched everywhere,but there was no sign of HenryJekyll, dead or alive.

'Perhaps your master has escaped,'said Mr Utterson hopefully. He went to check the door from the laboratory into thenarrow side－street.It was locked,and covered with dust.Onthe floor nearby he found a broken key.

'It's a long time since anyone opened this door!' said MrUtterson.

'Yes,'said Poole,picking up the broken key.'So how didHyde get in?'

'This is too difficult for me,Pooh,'said the lawyer.'Let'sgo back to the study.'

They searched the study again.'Look,sir,'said Poole,Pointing to a small bable in the corner.There were bottles ofliquid and some white powders lying in saucers.'He was testing his chemicals here.'

One of the doctor's books was lying on the floor. Its coverwas torn off.The lawyer picked it up.Doctor Jekyll loved hisbooks and always took great care of them. But he had writtenall over this one-the handwriting was unmistakable-beforetearing it and throwing it on the floor.

Then the lawyer noticed the tall mirror on the wall betweenthe glass-fronted bookshelves.

'How strange,'said Mr Utterson.'Why did Jekyll want amirror in his study?'

Next they turned to the desk and found a large packet addressed to Mr Utterson. The handwriting was DoctorJekyll's.The lawyer opened the packet and three envelopesfell out on to the floor.The first contained a will. It was likeDoctor Jekyll's first win in every wayexcept one.The doctor had left all his money,not to Edward Hyde,but to GabrielJohn Utterson.

The lawyer looked at the will,then at Poole,and finally atthe dead man on the floor.

'I just don't understand,'he whispered.'Hyde has beenhere all this time-why didn't he destroy this will?'

He picked up the next envelope.It contained a short note inthe doctor's handwriting.Mr Utterson saw the date.'Poole!'he cried,'this is today's date on the letter. Jekyllwas alive here today. He can't be dead-he has run away or ishiding somewhere.And if so, why?If he's alive,can we besure that Hyde killed himself? We must be careful, Poole,orwe may involve your master in some terrible danger.

'Why don't you read the note, sir?asked the servant.

'Because I'm afraid,said the lawyer,in a worried voice.Slowly,he lifted the letter,and read：

My dear Utterson,

If you are reading this,it means that I have disappeared.Please go home and read Lanyon's letter.Afterwards,pleaseread the confessicn of

Your unfortunate and unhappy friend,

Henry Jekyll

'This must be the confession, said Mr Utterson to himself,picking up the third and largest envelope.He put it in hispocket.'say nothing about these papers, Poole,'he said.' Ifyour master has died or disappeared,this paper may save hisreputation.It's now ten o'clock.I must go home and studythese papers in peace and quiet But I shall come back here before midnight,and then we shall send fof the police.

They went out,locking the laboratory door behind them.With a heavy heart Mr Utterson walked home to read his letters.

  



 


8  Doctor Lanyon's letter

  

Dear Utterson,

Four days ago,on the 9th of January,I received a letterby the evening post it was in the handwriting of my oldfriend Henry Jekyll.I was rather surprised,as we were not inthe habit of writing to each other, and I had had dinner withhim the night before. When I came to read the letter, I waseven more surprised. The letter said：

  

Dear Lanyon,

You are one of my oldest friends. Although we havesometimes disagreed on scientific matters,I have alwaysremained your friend. I would do anything for you, Lanyon-please will you do something for me now?

Please, old friend,come to my house at once wth thisletter in your hand Poole,my servant, has his orders. Hewill be here with a locksmith.Break the lock of my studydoor, and then you must go in there alone.Open the glassfronted cupboard on the left－hand side and look on the fourthshelf from the top.On it you will find some pacKets of chemical powders, a small bottle and a book.Please take everything back to your house.

If you leave as soon as you receve this letter, you shouldbe back home before midnight.At that time you will recevea visit from a man.Please give him the bottle, the powdersand the book, and I shall aways be grateful to you.

Do not fail me, Lanyon. Believe me, my life and mypeace of mind depend on you.I am in fearful danger and only you can save me.

Your friend,

Henry Jekyll

After reading this letter, I was sure that Doctor Jekyll wasmad. But a friend is a friend, and so I went at once to hishouse.Jekyll's servant had received by the same post a letter similar to mine, and he was waiting for me with the locksmith.Together we went through the old laboratory andclimbed the stairs to the doctor's private study.The doorwas very strong, with an excellent lock, but the locksmithknew his job.Soon the door stood open and I entered thestudy.I opened the cupboard and found the shelf.Sureenough,the powders,the bottle and the book were there,and I took them home with me.

At home I lcoked at everything more carefully.There wereseveral packets of white powder and a bottle of red,strong－smelling liquid.The book contained nothing except alist of dates, going back several years.The last date wasnearly a year ago.Here and there the doctor had added afew words.The word'donble'appeared very early in thelist, followed by the word'Failed!!'.'Double'appeared inthe list several more times…What was Jekyll doing?Thebook looked like a list of unsuccessful experiments.Howcould I,by taking these things to my house,save my friend's life and peace of mind?And what was the reason for thismidnight visitor? I put my old gun in my pocket, then I putevery thing in a box for my midnight visitor to collect.

At midnight exactly there was a knock on my door. A shortman was standing in the shadows.

'Are you from Doctor Jekyll?'I asked.He bent his head.

Although I could not see his face,there was something unpleasing about him and I was glad I had a weapon.I invitedhim into the house and there, in the bright light, I took a closer look at him.

His appearance was extremely strange. His clothes werewell made and expensive, but they were far too large forhim. He looked like a child wearing his father's clothes, butthere was nothing childlike about this man. He was short, asI have said, but very strong At the same time there was alook of sickness and horror about him,and his face was amask of pain, violence and hate.As a doctor I could pernapsfeel sorry for him；as a mau I felt only fear and dislike.

'you got it?'said the stranger impatiently,reachingout his hand and touching my arm. His touch made my bloodrun cold.I shook off his hand.'Come, sir,' I said calmly.'Sit down and introduce yourself.'

'I apologize, Doctor Lanyon,'the stranger said more politely.'Doctor Henry Jekyll sent me here on an importantmatter.I have to collect something from you.'

I gave him the box.He took it with trembling hands.' Atlast!'he cried.He turned to me.His face was deathly pale.'Have you a medicine glass?'he asked.

I gave it to him.He put a little of the red liquid in the glassand added a packet of powder.A small cloud of smoke rosefrom the glass and the colour of the liquid changed from redto purple, and from purple to a watery green.The strangerput the glass down on the table and looked sharply at me.

'And now,'he said,'choose carefully.You can leave theroom now .Or you can stay and experience something new,something unknown to science. You can be rich,famous andsuccessful,if only you will believe'

'Sir,'I said,trying to remain calm,'I don't understandwhat you're trying to say,and I think you are probably madBut I will stay.'

'Very well,'said the stranger.'Now remember yourpromise. You've been an unbeliever all your life.Youlaughed at Doctor Jekyll's ideas and called them unscientificrubbish-now see for yourself!'

He put the glass to his lips and drank the liquid.His wholebody shook and jumped and he almost fell.He held onto theedge of the table, breathing fast through his open mouth. AsI watched,his whole body seemed to change.He seemed tobecome taller, fatter-his face turned black and its shapebegan to change…The next moment I jumped back againstthe wall,trembling with fear and horror.There before myeyes, pale and shaken and sick, stood Henry Jekyll!

I cannot make myself write down the things that Jekyll,with tears in his eyes, confessed to me that night

Now fear and horror are my only companions.Sleep has left me and I feel that I have not long to live. As I write, Iwonder. Did I imagine it all?As a scientist I cannot believeit-but I saw it happen with my own eyes.

I will say just one thing more,Utterson.The evil thing thatcame into my house that night-as Jekyll told me-wasknown by the name of Hyde, and was wanted by the policefor the murder of Sir Danvers Carew.

Hastie Lanyon

With fear in his heart,Mr Utterson put away Doctor Lanyon's letter, and then opened the confession of Doctor Henry Jekyll.

  



 
 



9  Doctor Jekyll's confession

  

I was born in the year 18-. I inherited a large fortune,a strong healthy body and an excellent mind. I wasnaturally hard－working and soon I was extremely successful inmy chosen work as a scientist.Although I was still young,important people came to me for advice.At an age when mostyoung men are going out and having fun, I was behaving like agrey－haired old man.

This was not easy for me.The outside world saw a serious,hard－working doctor. Behind this quiet character, however,was an active, fun-loving young man-about-town. This, ofcourse, was nothing to be ashamed of, but I did not realizethat at the time. I was ashamed, and I soon learned to keepmy two lives separate.

I was not dishonest in any way.Both these people were me.The serious, successful young doctor was me, and the wild,fun-loving,irresponsible young man was me too.I thought about this for a long time and slowly I realized that I was notextraordinary in this. Every man has two sides to hischaracter. He is two people.They live together-often uncomfortably in the same body.

'How fantastic,'I thought, if I could separate these twocharacters and give my fun－loving side his freedom. Then hecould go out and enjoy himself unashamedly and leave serious,studious Doctor Jekyll to get on with his important, life-savingwork.'

'Was it possible,' I wondered,'to find a drug that couldgive each side of my characier its own separate face and body?'

After much thought and careful study I believed I had foundthe answer.I had read many scientific books and spent manyhours in my laboratory,searching for the right mixture ofchemicals to make my drug.At last I had everything I neededexcept a special kind of salt. I bought some from a chemist,and then I was ready.

I hesitated for a long time before I began my experiment.Only a small mistake in the mixture of the drug could meanimmediate death.But in the end,my wish to know wasstronger than my fear.And so, late one disastrous night, Imixed everything together and prepared my drug.I watchedthe smoke rising from the liquid as it changed colour from redto purple and at last to green.Then, bravely,I drank everybitter drop.

I felt a violent sickness in my stomach and a terrible pain inall my bones.The room seemed to turn round and round and Itrembled with fear.Then the fear and pain disappeared and astrange, sweet feeling took its place. Wild thoughts dancedthrough my mind. They were not good,serious thoughtsThey were the wild passions of an evil and cruel stranger. Butinside myself I felt younger, lighter, more carefree than everbefore.'If this is pure evil,'I thought,'I like it.'

I stood there. enjoying these strange new thoughts and passions-and suddenly realized that I was shorter.At that timethere was no mirror in my stidy. Later I put one on the wallof my study so that I could watch these changes in my appearance Now,however,it was three o'clock in the morning andall the servants were asleep.I decided it was safe to go to mybedroom in my new body and take a look at myself in the mirror there.I crossed the garden and entered my house like astranger. As I came into my room, I saw Edward Hyde forthe first time.

At that time,the good side of my character was strongerthan the evil side.Henry Jekyll had his faults,but he wasmostly a good, kind man.I cannot be sure,but I believe thatis the reason why Edward Hyde was so much smaller thanHenry Jekyll.But that was not the only difference betweenthe two men. Henry Jekyll had a kind, open, honest face.Pure evil stared out of Edward Hyde's eyes.I felt no dislike,however.Indeed,I welcomed him.Edward Hyde was me,young and strong and full of life.

Later,however,I noticed that Hyde's appearance andmanner had a strong effect on other people. Nobody couldmeet Edward Hyde without a feeling of dislike and horror. Ibelieve I understand the reason for this too. Everyone is a mixture of good and evil.Even the worst criminal has a little goodin him. Only Edward Hyde was pure evil.

I stood for a long time,staring at the mirror.'Am Itrapped?'I wondered.'If I am,I must leave this house beforedaylight. If I don't, I shall be arrested as a thief.

I hurried back to my study. With trembling hands I mixedanother dose of the drug and drank it.Again I felt that terriblePain and sickness, but a few seconds later I found myself withthe face and body and character of Henry Jekyll once more.

I blame myself for the things that happened later. It wasnot the fault of the drug.That was neither good nor evil.Butit opened the prison doors and all owed Edward Hyde toescape.Soon he was out of control. He, you will remember,was wholly evil.Doctor Jekyll was not wholly good, however.He was a normal man with normal faults and weaknesses, andHyde was too strong for him.

I welcomed Hyde,therefore.I arranged everything verycarefully.I bought a flat in a poor part of London, where Ikept Hyde's clothes and employed a servant to do the housework.I took a dose of the drug whenever I wanted to forgetmy old, quiet, serious self for a time. In those early daysGod forgive me!-I thought it was all very amusing. DoctorJekyll was well known.Nobody knew Hyde, however, and inhis body I was free to do as I wished.

I will not go into details about my adventures and shamefulacts as Hyde. Jekyll remained as good and kind as ever and always did his best to undo the harm that Hyde did. But as timewent by, Jekyll became less and less able to control Hyde.

One night Hyde injured a child in the street and a passer－bysaw him.That passer－by was your cousin. I recognized himwhen the two of you came to my window.Your cousin caughtHyde and an angry crowd collected. They asked for money forthe child's family. In the end, in order to escape, Hyde hadto give your cousin a cheque in the name of Jekyll.

I learned my lesson from this, and opened a new bank account in the name of Hyde. I even gave Hyde a different handwriting. I was sure I was safe-but I was wrong.

Two months before the murder of Sir Danvers Carew I wentout on one of my evil adventures.Before I went to bed,I tooka dose of the drug and became Doctor Jekyll once more. Iwoke up in bed the next morning with a strange feeling thatsomething was wrong… I looked around the room, thendown at my hand.Henry Jekyll's hand was large,white, andwellmade, but the hand I saw that morning on the bedcoverwas thin,bony, greyish－brown, and hairy.It was the hand ofEdward Hyde.

Sick with horror, I stared at it. I was Henry Jekyll when Iwent to bed,'I thought.'And now I am Edward Hyde…What possible explanation can there be? And,moreimportant, how can I get to my study and take the drug?'

Then I realized that the servants were quite used to the comings and goings of Hyde. I put on Hyde's clothes and marchedconfidently through the house. Poole stared in surprise to seeMr Hyde so early in the morning, but I did not care. Tenminutes later Doctor Jekyll had returned to his own shape andwas sitting down,pretending to eat breakfast.

Too worried to eat, I sat there thinking hard about my situation. I realized that in recent weeks Hyde had become biggerand stronger, both in body and character.

'What will I do,'I thought,' Hyde takes control?'Ithought about the drug. Once,in the early days,it had failedcompletely, and sometimes I had had to take a double dose before I changed into Hyde.Now,however,it was quite easy tobecome Hyde-the problem was to become Jekyll again aftermy adventures.My good self and my evil self were fighting formy mind and body-and my evil self was winning.

I knew I had to choose between the two, and I chose DoctorJekyll. Perhaps I was not wholly serious about this,however,because I did not sell Hyde's flat or destroy his clothes. Fortwo months I lived the life of a quiet and responsible man. Butsoon I began to miss Hyde-his strong young body, his love oflife and his dark adventures in the narrow, nameless streets ofLondon.One night, when my life as Jekyll seemed imposslblydull and boring, I mixed a dose of the drug and drank it.

It was like opening the door of a cage and letting a wild animal escape.That night I became a madman, and beat Sir Danvers to death-for no reason at all.I felt only a wild delight asI hit his body again and again. Afterwards I ran to the flat anddestroyed all my papers. I was not ashamed of my crime. Instead I was filled with a high,sweet excitement. I relived themurder as I walked back home through the streets. I feltstrong and masterful…Edward Hyde had a song on his lipsas he mixed a dose of the drug.'Your very good health, SirDanvers!'he laughed as he drank.A moment of terrible pain,then poor Henry Jekyll fell to his knees and begged God to forgive him.

When I was myself again,I locked the door that led fromthe street to my laboratory. I broke the key and threw itaway. Goodbye for ever,Mr Hyde!I whispered.

The next day the news of the murder was all over London.The servant girl had seen the crime and recognized Mr Hyde.My other self was wanted by the police.

In some ways I was glad. Now Hyde could not show hisface to the world again. If he did, every honest man in London would be proud to report him to the police.

Once again I led a busy,responsible and almost happy life…until one fine,clear January day. I was sitting on a seat inthe park,enjoying the sunshine,when suddenly I felt deathlysick.I began to tremble all over. Soon, however, I felt wellagain－not only well, but young,strong and fearless. I lookeddown； my clothes were suddenly too big,the hand on my kneewas the bony,hairy hand of Edward Hyde. It was so sudden.One moment I was a famous and popular doctor,the next Iwas a violent criminal who was wanted for murder.

How could I get to my study to take the drug? I had lockedthe street door to my laboratory and broken the key. I couldnot, therefore,enter from the street. I could not go inthrough the house because of the servants.I needed help fromoutside.I thought of Lanyon,but how could I reach him?And how could I persuade him to let Hyde into his home?How,too,could I persuade him to break into Doctor Jekyll's private study?It looked impossible. Then I remembered.My appearance was unrecognizable,but my handwriting was unchanged.I'could still write a letterin Doctor Jekyll's name!Calling a passing taxicab,I orderedthe driver to drive to a hotel quite near Lanyon's house.Ofcourse Jekyll's clothes were much too large for my body,and Ihad trouble in climbing into the cab.The driver noticed mystrange appearance and could not help laughing.I gave himsuch a black look,however,that the smile froze on his face.In my desperate fear and danger,I was like a pain-maddened animal,ready to kill or wound at any moment.I wanted topull the driver from his seat and murder him then and there.But I was clever too.My life depended on my coolness,and Ifought to control my murderous passions.

We reached the hotel.I paid the driver and went inside,holding up my too-large trousers.The servants smiled whenthey saw my strange appearance.I stared angrily at them andtheir smiles disappeared at once.I gave my orders and they ledme to a private room and brought me some writing paper and apen.

Hyde in danger of his life was a new experience for me.He-I write'he'because I find it hard to write'I'-he wasnot human.His only feelings at that time were fear and hate.Hyde was wholly evil,but he was not stupid.He knew thathis life depended on two letters,one to Lanyon and one toPoole.If he failed,he would die.

Carefully he wrote the letters and sent a servant to postthem.After that he sat all day by the fire in the private room.There too he had dinner,brought by a frightened waiter.Atlast,when darkness had covered the city,he sat in the cornerof a closed taxicab.'Just drive round!'he ordered,and thedriver drove backwards and forwards through the streets ofLondon.

Then,when Hyde thought the driver was beginning to sus-pect something,he sent the taxicab away and continued onfoot.He was a strange figure in his too-large clothes,withfear and hate staring out of his eyes.He walked along talkingto himself.Once a woman spoke to him 'Will you buy my matches,sir?'she begged.Hyde hit heracross the face,and she ran away in fear.

My plan was successful.And when I arrived in Lanyon's house,I took the dose of the drug that returned me to my nor-mal appearance.

Immediately afterwards I felt deeply ashamed.Perhaps itwas Lanyon's horror that made me feel like that.I do notknow.But I hated myself and I was conscious of an importantchange in my feelings.I was no longer afraid of the police-Iwas afraid of Hyde himself.The thought of his short,strong,hairy body and his evil,cruel,wholly selfish mind filled mewith horror.

Exhausted by the horrors of that day,I slept heavily.Iwoke in the morning feeling weak and shaky,but quitenormal.I still hated and feared the thought of the wild animalinside me,and I had not forgotten the desperate dangers of theday before.But I was at home and close to my drugs,and Iwas most deeply grateful for my escape.

I was walking across the garden after breakfast,enjoyingthe clear wintry air,when suddenly my body was again tornby those indescribable feelings which I always experienced af-ter a dose of the drug.I only just reached my study before Iwas again burning and freezing with the violent passions ofHyde.With feverish speed I mixed the drug.This time I hadto take a double dose to return to my old shape.And then,on-ly six hours later,the pains returned and I had to repeat thedose.

From that day onwards the situation worsened.I neededlarger and more frequent doses in order to stay in Jekyll's body.The pains came unexpectedly,but most of all when Iwas asleep.I was afraid to go to bed,or even to sleep for afew moments in my chair.If I did so,I always woke as Hyde.

Soon Jekyll was a sick man,feverish and weakened by painand fear.As Jekyll grew weaker,Hyde became stronger thanever.He burned with hate for everybody and everything.AndHyde and Jekyll now hated each other with equal passion.Jekyll hated Hyde because Hyde was evil and inhuman,andbecause Hyde was stronger than he was.Jekyll lived in fear ofwaking up and finding himself in Hyde's body,with allHyde's evil passions.Hyde hated Jekyll for a different reason.His fear of death-the punishment for murder-drove him tothe hiding-place of Jekyll's body.But he hated this prison andwas always fighting.to escape from Jekyll's mind and body,and take control.He also hated Jekyll's weakness and his sad,hopeless condition.Most of all,he hated Jekyll's dislike ofhim.This was why Hyde sometimes did things to annoyJekyll.He tore the doctor's books and wrote all over them.He burned his letters and even destroyed a picture of thedoctor's dead father.

Only Hyde's fear of his own death stops him from killingme.His love of life is terribly strong,and he knows that if hekills me,he too will die.I almost feel sorry for him.

It is useless to continue this confession.The final disasterhas arrived,and will put an end to my punishment.I shallsoon lose my own face and character for ever.I have only afew doses of the drug left.I sent Poole to the same chemist tofetch some more chemicals.When he brought them,I mixed adose of the drug.The liquid smoked and changed from red topurple,but it did not turn green.I drank it,and looked in themirror.But there was no effect.Edward Hyde's face stillstared back at me.

I expect Poole has told you that I have searched London forthe chemicals I need.It is no good.I have decided that thefirst chemicals I bought were not absolutely pure.By accident,they contained something unknown to myself or to the chemistthat prepared them.And that unknown something made mydrug effective.So my drug was an accidental discovery thatcannot be repeated.

About a week has passed.I have used the last of the oldchemicals,and for the moment I am Henry Jekyll again.But Icannot write much more-I have very little time.If Hyde re-turns while I am writing this confession,he will tear it topieces to annoy me.If I finish it,however,he will probablynot notice it.He lives only for the moment,and he is already achanged man.He is like a trapped animal now.He sits in mychair trembling and weeping with hate and fear.All the timehe listens for the policeman's knock at the door.Will he becaught at last,and put to death?Or will he be brave enough totake a dose of poison at the last moment?

Well,that is not my business.This is the true hour of mydeath.When you read this,the Henry Jekyll you know will bedead.The rest of the story is about Edward Hyde.Now,as Iput down my pen,I bring the life of unhappy Henry Jekyll toan end.

  

本书下载于txtba小说吧,仅供读者预览,如喜欢请购买正版
如果认为本站侵犯了您的权益,请来信告知,我们会立即删除!
更多小说请关注www.txtba.com