简介

　

　　人类是地球这颗行星上最成功的动物。所谓成功,是指在与其他动物的斗争中取得的成功。在争夺食物或土地的问题上,我们人类战无不胜。我们砍伐树木,修建房屋或工厂,自己种植粮食。其他动物不得不去另找其他的地方生活--如果它们能找着的话。

　　我们人类战无不胜是因为我们智力发达。我们会思想,会说话,会使用工具,会制造精妙的机器。我们是再聪明不过的动物……

　　也许聪明过头了。也许将来的人们会有不同的想法。蜂鸟（简称蜂儿）是一个生活在公元22500年的16岁姑娘,她住在离地球很远很远的一颗行星上。她喜欢漂亮的衣服,喜欢跳舞,还为自己将嫁给谁而忐忑不安。她从来没有见过树。什么动物啊、鸟啊她从来没有见过。当然,她知道什么是动物,因为在《往事追忆》这本书中有动物的故事。但谁会相信那种老掉牙的故事呢?

　　本书的作者,哈里·吉尔伯特,是住在伦敦的一位教师。这是他的第八本书,也是他为学习英语的学生写的第一本

　

　1 You must marry me

　

　　Nothing ever happens on Just Like Home-that's the name of the planet I live on.I get so bored!

　　But tonight was Remembering Night and that's exciting.There's the big fire where everybody must put on something that they love and watch it burn.Then there's the dancing round the fire.

　　But what I like best about Remembering Night are the clothes.We usually wear what we like on Just Like Home-but the clothes must have the name of our name-animal on them.For example,I always have the word'Hummingbird'on my clothes,which means my name is Hummingbird-Hummy for short.

　　Nobody knows what a hummingbird looks like,but we know what birds are.Birds are animals that fly.The Book of Remembering tells us that.

　　I don't always believe what the Book of Remembering says.

　　Nobody knows who you are on Remembering Night because you wear black clothes that cover you from head to foot,and there is no name of your name-animal.You can only see people's eyes looking out of the eye-holes in the clothes.

　　It was dark outside.The only light came from the big fire.I beld my father's hand at first and we danced together.My mother danced away and I couldn't see her.Soon I lost my father.I didn't know where they were.

　　It didn't matter.I was dancing in the middle of the crowd.Our family would meet together in the robot plane afterwards.

　　There were about a thousand people round the fire.Too many people to count.Nearly everybody on Just Like Home was there.

　　Everybody,on planets all over the Galaxy,was dancing round fires at the same time.What a wonderful thing!

　　The last dance began.You hold hands in a big circle round the fire-everybody together.You dance round and round in a circle until…

　　Well,everybody knows what happens in the end.

　　I was holding hands with someone on my right and someone on my left.We were all shouting,'BURN BURN BURN BURN BURN BURN BURN…'

　　The last dance went on for a long time.In the end somebody fell down.He pulled down the people on both sides of him.Then people on both sides of them fell down.Everybody was too tired to stay on their feet.

　　People fell down all round the circle.Falling.Dying.

　　We wear black clothes to remember.We remember the Burning.

　　We remember that we have a Galaxy,but we are alone.We are empty in our hearts.We are the only living things in the Galaxy.

　　Sad.Lonely and sad.

　　I lay on the ground,very,very tired.I was happy and sad at the same time.Happy to be with everybody,sad that we were alone.

　　Then the worst thing in my life happened.Somebody came up to me and said,'Hello.'I didn't know who it was.I could only see his eyes shining in the light of the fire.But it was the voice of a man who was much older than me.

　　'Hello?'I answered.I didn't want to talk to him.

　　'I saw you in the dance,'he said.'I know you're a young girl because you were dancing like a young girl.I think you're seventeen years old.'

　　'No,I'm only sixteen,'I said.

　　'Wonderful.Just what I want,'said the man.'I will marry you.You must marry me.'

　　I couldn't believe what he was saying.This was terrible.And very bad luck.

　　Yes,it was true a woman must marry any man who asks her on Remembering Night-by order of the Star Council.I'm sixteen so I'm a woman,not a child.I couldn't say no to this man.I was sick in my heart.

　　'My name's Buff,'the man said.'What's your name,sweetheart?'

　　'Er,my name's,er…Caterpillar,'I lied.'I'm usually called Kate.'

　　'Well,Kate,'Buff said,'will you marry me?'

　　'I'm sorry,Buff.I know I'm sixteen and old enough to get married but my parents don't want me to get married yet.I'm their only daughter.'

　　Buff laughed.It was a horrible Iaugh.He enjoyed knowing I didn't want him.What a monster!

　　Oh,thank Earth－and－animals I hadn't told him my real name!

　　I jumped up suddenly and ran into the crowds of people in the dark.I was safe.He couldn't find me.I went to our robot plane and sat inside until my parents came.

　　I didn't tell my parents anything.I was afraid.The Star Council said Buff was right and I was wrong,and I didn't know what my parents would do.

　　Next morning I forgot about it.How could Buff find me?There were hundreds of girls on our planet.He didn't know my name.He had only seen my eyes.

　　Suddenly my father came into my room.'Hummingbird,'he said sadly.

　　'What's the matter?'I asked.'Why are you calling me Hummingbird,not Hummy?'

　　'Hummingbird,ask your robot for a wedding dress.'

　　'Why?Why?'But I knew the answer.

　　'You will marry a gentleman called Buffalo.'

　　'No,father,I can't.'I started crying.'I don't want to.I'm too young.I don't want to leave you.I hate him!'

　　My father shook his head.'Please,Hummy,it's only for one year.You can't be a child forever.Lots of girls don't want to get married at first.The Star Council says we must get married as often as possible and have children.You know why.'

　　'Why?'I spoke like a small child.

　　'Because we are lonely.Because there is nothing in the Galaxy except us.You know all that,Hummy.'

　　The dressing-robot made me a wedding dress-we have robots for everything like that.The dress was white and covered me all over except for my eyes.

　　My father took my arm.

　　Buff was waiting with my mother.I saw his eyes through the eye-holes of his wedding suit.They were small mean eyes.

　　'Hello,Kate,'he said.

　　My father said,'Her name is Hummingbird.'

　　'I know,I know,'Buff said.

　　'How did you find me?'I asked Buff.

　　'I had a small camera,'he answered.'I took a photo of your eyes.Did you know that everybody's eyes are different?Nobody has eyes like yours.'

　　I turned to my father.'Listen to him!Can't you see how horrible he is?Please don't make me marry him.'

　　My father didn't say anything.He couldn't help me.

　　You can say no if a man asks you to marry him on Remembering Night.But you must have a very special reason.A reason that the Star Council will accept.If you are doing work that is important for the Galaxy,the Council will usually accept that as a good reason.

　　I couldn't think of anything like that.But it was something to hope for…if I could escape.

　　I was afraid.I didn't want to run away and never see my family again.

　　Some neighbours arrived,and the wedding began immediately.

　　Buff stood next to me and held my hand.His hand was large and a little wet.How I hated him!

　　My father picked up the Book of Remembering.He read,'In the beginning there were millions of planets in the Galaxy but there was only life on one.That was the planet Earth.People and animals lived together.But people polluted Earth.It became too hot for animals to live.They died.All the animals died.So people left Earth and never returned to that planet.Their hearts were empty when they left Earth,empty today,empty forever…'

　　Buff was still holding my hand.

　　My father spoke again.'Buffalo,will you take my daughter Hummingbird to be your wife for one year,in the name of Earth and the animals?'

　　Buff answered,'I will.'

　　My father turned to me.'Hummingbird,will you take this man Buffalo to be your husband for one year,in the name of Earth and the animals?'

　　That's when I ran.

　　I let the wedding dress fall off me.I ran fast.They ran afterme but I could run much faster without the wedding dress.I got to our robot spaceship,jumped into it and said,'Take off.'

　　'Why are people running towards us?'the spaceship asked.

　　'Take off now!'I shouted.'It's life or death!'

　　The spaceship couldn't argue.It took off.

　　Just Like Home was green all over-fields of wheat everywhere.I was out in space looking back at my planet.All around me were stars.

　　The millions of stars in the Galaxy-that's where I could hide!

　

1 你必须嫁给我

　

　　“赛家”总是死气沉沉的--赛家是我住的行星的名字。我真是烦透了!

　　但今晚是怀旧夜,让人兴奋。点着一堆很大的篝火,每个人都要把一些他们心爱的东西放进火里,看着烧掉。然后,大家围着火起舞。

　　可怀旧夜最让我喜欢的地方是衣服。我们在赛家平常喜欢穿什么都行--但衣服得写上我们“名肖”动物的名字。比如,我的衣服上总有“蜂鸟”这个词,指的是我的名字叫蜂鸟--简称蜂儿。

　　没人知道蜂鸟长得什么样,可我们知道什么是鸟。鸟是会飞的动物。《往事追忆》上是这么告诉我们的。

　　我不是太相信《往事追忆》上说的东西。

　　在怀旧夜没有人会知道你是谁,因为你从头到脚罩着黑衣服,也没有你名肖动物的名字。你只能看见别人的眼睛从衣服的眼洞里往外看。

　　外面很黑。唯一的亮光是那堆大篝火发出的。开始时,我抓着爸爸的手,一起跳舞。我妈妈跳着跳着离我们远了,我看不见她。没多久,爸爸也不见了。我不知道他们去了哪儿。

　　没关系。我在人群当中跳舞。我们家人最后会在智能飞船上会面。

　　大概有上千人围着篝火,人多得数不过来。赛家上几乎所有人都在那儿。

　　银河系每个行星上的所有人都同时在围着篝火跳舞。多么不可思议啊!

　　最后一个舞蹈开始了。大家拉着手,在篝火外面围成一个大圈--每个人都拉着手。大家围着圈跳啊跳啊,直到……

　　唉,谁都知道最后怎么了。

　　我右边拉着一个人的手,左边拉着一个人的手。我们都喊着：“烧啊、烧啊、烧啊、烧……”

　　最后一个舞跳了好久。最后有人倒下了。他把他两边的人也拽倒了。然后他们两侧的人也都倒了。大家都累得站不住了。

　　一圈人都倒下了。崩溃了,沉寂了。

　　我们穿着黑衣服是为了怀念。我们纪念“大火灾”。

　　我们记得我们有一个银河系,但我们是孤独的。我们心里空荡荡的。我们是银河系里唯一的生物。

　　伤感。孤独而伤感。

　　我躺在地上,精疲力竭。一时间我又高兴又难过。我高兴和大家在一起,我难过因为我们孤独。

　　然后我一生最糟糕的事发生了。有个人走到我面前说道：“你好。”我不知道是谁。我只能看到他的眼睛在火光下闪光。但那是一个比我大好多的男人的声音。

　　“你好?”我答道。我不想和他说话。

　　“我看见你跳舞了,”他说,“我知道你是个年轻的姑娘,因为你的舞姿像个年轻姑娘。我猜你有十七岁了。”

　　“不,我才十六,”我说。

　　“太好了。正合我意,”这个男人说,“我要娶你。你必须嫁给我。”

　　我简直无法相信他在说什么。这太可怕了。真是倒霉透顶。

　　是的,在怀旧夜,女人必须嫁给向她求婚的男人,这是真的--是星际理事会定下的规矩。我已十六岁,是女人,不是孩子了。我不能拒绝这个男人。我心里一阵恶心。

　　“我叫牛子,”这男人说。“你叫什么,亲爱的?”

　　“呃,我叫,呃……毛虫,”我骗他道,“他们都叫我虫子。”

　　“好,虫子,”牛子说,“你肯嫁给我吗?”

　　“对不起,牛子。我知道我已十六,到了可以结婚的年龄,但我父母还不想让我结婚。他们只有我这一个女儿。”

　　牛子大笑起来。笑得好可怕。知道我不喜欢他,他很开心。真是个混蛋!

　　噢,感谢地球及其动物我没告诉他我的真名!

　　我突然跳起来,跑进黑暗中的人群。我安全了。他找不着我。我回到我们的智能飞船上,坐在里面直到我父母回来。

　　我什么也没对父母说。我害怕。星际理事会说牛子是对的,我是错的,我不知道我父母会怎么做。

　　第二天上午我就把这事儿忘了。牛子怎么能找得到我?我们的行星上有好几百个姑娘。他不知道我的名字。他只看见了我的眼睛。

　　忽然,我爸爸进了我的房间。“蜂鸟,”他满面愁容地说道。

　　“怎么啦?”我问,“您为什么叫我蜂鸟,不叫蜂儿?”

　　“蜂鸟,让你的机器人给你一套婚纱。”

　　“为什么?为什么?”但我知道是怎么回事儿了。

　　“你要嫁给一个叫水牛的男人。”

　　“不,爸爸,我不能。”我哭了起来。“我不要嫁人。我太小了。我不想离开您。我讨厌他!”

　　爸爸摇了摇头。“好了,蜂儿,不过是一年的功夫。你不能总是个孩子。好多姑娘开始都不想嫁人。星际理事会说我们必须尽量频繁地结婚,然后生孩子。你知道原因。”

　　“为什么?”我孩子似地说道。

　　“因为我们孤独。因为除了我们,银河系就没有其他东西了。这些你都知道的,蜂儿。”

　　机器人裁缝给我做了一套婚纱--我们做什么都有机器人。婚纱是白的,除了眼睛,把我全罩住了。

　　爸爸挽着我的胳膊。

　　牛子和我妈妈在一起等着。我通过他结婚礼服的眼洞看见了他的眼睛。一双刻薄的小眼睛。

　　“你好,虫子,”他说。

　　我爸爸说道：“她的名字叫蜂鸟。”

　　“我知道,我知道,”牛子说。

　　“你怎么找到我的?”我问牛子。

　　“我有个小照相机,”他回答,“我给你的眼睛照了张像。难道你不知道每个人的眼睛都不同吗?没有人长着和你一样的眼睛。”

　　我转向爸爸：“听他说的话!您难道看不出他有多坏吗?求您别让我嫁给他。”

　　我爸爸没说话。他帮不了我。

　　怀旧夜里,男人向你求婚你可以拒绝。但你要有非同寻常的理由,一个星际理事会能接受的理由。如果你正在为银河系做重要的工作,理事会一般会认为这是可以接受的正当理由。

　　我想不出任何这种理由。可这只能是痴心妄想……我要是能逃跑该多好。

　　我害怕。我不愿逃跑,不愿将来永远见不到我的家人。

　　几个邻居到了,于是婚礼马上开始。

　　牛子站在我身边,抓着我的手。他的手很大,有点湿。我恨死他了!

　　爸爸拿起《往事追忆》。他读道：“开始的时候,银河系有数以百万计的行星,但只有一颗行星上有生命,那就是地球。人类和动物生活在一起。但人类污染了地球。它变得太热了,动物无法生存。它们死了。所有的动物都死了。所以,人类离开了地球,再也没有回到那颗行星。他们离开地球的时候,心里空荡荡的,今天仍是空荡荡的,永远空荡荡的……”

　　牛子还抓着我的手。

　　爸爸又说话了：“水牛,以地球和动物的名义,你愿意娶我的女儿让她做你一年妻子吗?”

　　牛子答道：“我愿意。”

　　我爸爸转向我：“蜂鸟,以地球和动物的名义,你愿意嫁给水牛让他做你一年的丈夫吗?”

　　就在这时候我跑开了。

　　我把婚纱扯了下来。我跑得很快。他们追我,但我没穿婚纱,跑得比他们快得多。我跑上我们的智能飞船,跳了上去,说道：“起飞。”

　　“为什么人们朝我们跑?”飞船问道。

　　“马上起飞!”我叫道。“生死攸关!”

　　飞船不会争辩。起飞了。

　　赛家整个都是绿的--到处都是麦田。我在太空中回头看着我的行星。我的周围都是星星。

银河系的数百万颗星星--那正是我的藏身之地!

　　　
2 A spaceship made of plastic

　

　　I couldn't believe what I'd done.I'd run away-me!

　　I'm not very brave and I love my parents very much.I never thought I could ever disobey them.

　　I was afraid.And I felt sad for my parents.Poor mother and father!

　　But I had to live my own life.I couldn't get married to a horrible old man like Buffalo!

　　I knew they would follow me quickly so I told the spaceship to take me to a very quiet part of the Galaxy,a long way from any planets with people on.

　　The spaceship went.

　　How can a spaceship travel across the Galaxy in no time at all?

　　Well,I learnt the answer to that in school.There are a lot of little black holes in space.They are about as big as a potato.A spaceship goes into one black hole and comes out of another black hole on the other side of the Galaxy.

　　Don't ask me how a big thing like a spaceship can go into a thing as small as a potato.I was probably asleep when the robot teacher told me the answer to that!

　　Nobody could find me now.I was in the middle of the Galaxy in empty space.

　　There were stars above my head,stars below my feet,starson my left hand,stars on my right hand.

　　Strange.I knew all these stars were a long,long way away but they didn't look far away.They looked very close；I wanted to reach out my hand and touch them.

　　And the silence.So very,very, very quiet.

　　The Book of Remembering says how I felt：'Their hearts were empty.'

　　My heart was empty.I saw millions of stars but there was no life in the Galaxy except us humans.Well,there are potatoes and wheat and rice but you can't talk to vegetables.

　　We are alone.

　　The Book of Remembering says we did it.We polluted Earth and so killed all the animals. We ran away from Earth and we're still running.That was twenty thousand years ago and we still can't forget.

　　The Book of Remembering gives names for thousands of animals.Fantastic!Could there really be thousands of animals?The idea of animals is so strange.What did they look like?The Book of Remembering has no pictures, but says there are birds that fly,and fish that swim.There are animals with no legs,and animals with lots of legs-ugh!What a horrible idea!

　　Can anybody believe stories like that?

　　And now I was running away too.Perhaps I was wrong to run away.

　　Suddenly the spaceship went'PING!'

　　'Yes,what is it?'I asked.

　　'There is something near us.'

　　'Oh!'I said.'I thought we were a long way from anything out here.Take me closer.'

　　We moved closer,but I couldn't see anything.

　　Then one star disappeared,then another star,and another.It was too dark to see what the thing was.It was just a big black shape between me and the stars.

　　It was probably just a big old rock,which had broken off a moon or a planet.

　　Well,perhaps it contained gold or something.Then I could show the Star Council I was doing important work.Perhaps that would be a good reason not to marry Buff.

　　I said,'Find out what it is made of.'

　　The spaceship shot a laser at the thing and said,'It is not natural.It may be a spaceship,although it is moving too slowly to arrive at a star.It is made of plastic.'

　　A spaceship made of plastic? You can't make spaceships out of plastic!And spaceships don't travel slowly.

　　I was a little afraid,but this was something really important；nobody could make me get married after I had discovered something as strange as this.I was afraid but also excited.Most girls just get married once a year and have another baby.That's enough excitement for them.Not me!

　　I was going to visit this spaceship and meet…the people inside it.

　　'Show me this plastic spaceship,'I said.

　　My spaceship shone out light.The thing was big,big,BIG.Who would build a spaceship so big? The plastic was full of holes and the spaceship looked old and dead.Would anybody be left alive inside? I didn't think so.

　　The spaceship was round like a ball.It turned slowly,which made things inside just heavy enough to stay on the ground.

　　I saw a door on it and said,'Land there.'

　　My spaceship landed.I put on a spacesuit, went outside and moved to the big round door.I pulled and pushed and hit it.At last something moved and the door opened.

　　Inside,there was a tunnel.A long black tunnel.I climbed in and the door closed behind me.

　

2 塑料做的飞船

　

　　我的所作所为真是难以置信。我跑掉了--天啊!

　　我的胆子不是很大,我也非常爱我的父母。我从没想过我会不听他们的。

　　我害怕。我为我的父母感到难过。可怜的妈妈、爸爸!

　　但我要过自己的生活。我不能嫁给水牛那样的糟老头子!

　　我清楚他们会很快跟上我的,所以我吩咐飞船把我带到银河系的一个特别宁静的角落,离任何一个有人类居住的星球都很远很远。

　　飞船进发了。

　　飞船怎么能在瞬间横穿银河系呢?

　　喔,我是在学校里知道这答案的。宇宙空间里有好多小黑洞。它们跟土豆差不多大小。飞船从一个黑洞进去,从另一个黑洞出来时就到了银河系的另一侧。

　　别问我为什么飞船这样的庞然大物能钻进土豆这样小的东西里。机器人老师给我讲这个答案时我可能睡着了!

　　现在没人能找到我了。我在茫茫太空中,在银河系的中间。

　　我的头上是星星,脚下是星星,左边是星星,右边是星星。

　　奇怪,我知道所有这些星星都很遥远很遥远,但看上去并不远。他们似乎非常近；我想伸出手去触摸它们。

　　还有寂静。静极了,静极了。

　　《往事追忆》道出了我的感受：“他们的心里空荡荡的。”

　　我的心里空荡荡的。我能看见好几百万颗星星,除了我们人类,银河系里就再也没有别的生命了。当然,有土豆、小麦和水稻,可你不能跟植物说话啊。

　　我们孤零零的。

　　《往事追忆》上说那是我们造成的。我们污染了地球,也就害死了所有的动物。我们从地球逃了出来,直到现在还在东奔西跑。那是两万年以前的事了,可我们至今难忘。

　　《往事追忆》上罗列了几千种动物的名字。难以置信!真的可能有几千种动物吗?有关动物的想法太离奇了。它们长得什么样?《往事追忆》上没有插图,但说有会飞的鸟,会游泳的鱼。有的动物没有腿,而有的动物有好多条腿--呜!多可怕的想法!

　　真有人会相信这种故事吗?

　　如今我也在逃亡。我逃跑可能错了。

　　突然飞船“砰!”地响了一声。

　　“哎,怎么了?”我问。

　　“我们旁边有个东西。”

　　“啊!”我说,“我以为我们离哪儿都很远呢。让我靠近点儿。”

　　我们靠近了些,可我什么也看不见。

　　接着,一颗星星不见了,又有一颗不见了,又是一颗。天太黑,看不见那是什么东西。只能看见我和星星之间黑乎乎的一大块。

　　它可能只是一块从卫星或行星上脱落的巨大的古岩石。

　　哎,那上面可能有金子什么的。那样我就可以让星际理事会看到我是在做重要的工作。也许这可以作为我不嫁给牛子的正当理由。

　　我说：“看看是什么材料制成的。”

　　飞船对着那个东西发出一束激光,然后说,“它不是天然的。它可能是个飞船,尽管它的运动速度太慢,无法抵达星球。它是塑料做的。”

　　一个塑料做的飞船?不可能用塑料做飞船!因为飞船的运行速度不能太低。

　　我有点害怕,可这是一件真正重要的事；我发现了这么一个希奇的东西,不会有人再逼我结婚了。我害怕,但又兴奋。多数姑娘每年结婚一次,再生一个孩子。这对她们就够刺激了。可我不!

　　我要上这只飞船,去见--里面的人。

　　“让我看看这塑料飞船,”我说。

　　我的飞船发射出灯光。这个东西真大,大极了。谁会制造这么大的飞船?塑料上到处是洞,飞船看上去很破旧,死一般的沉寂。里面会有活着的人吗?我想不会。

　　这个飞船象球一样圆。它慢慢地旋转着,仅能够使里面的东西有足够的重量呆在地面上。

　　我看到上面有扇门,就说道：“在那儿着陆。”

　　我的飞船着陆了。我穿上太空服,出了飞船,朝那个大圆门移动过去。我又拉又推又打。最后不知动了什么机关,门打开了。

　　里面是一条隧道。又长又黑的隧道。我爬了进去,身后的门关上了。

　3 Monsters

　

　　There was a door at the other end of the tunnel.I went through and…

　　I was dreaming!I saw big things that grew out of the ground.They were much taller than me with long brown arms covered with green leaves.

　　I was very frightened as I remembered something in the Book of Remembering：'In those days there were trees…'

　　Trees!

　　I never thought a living thing could be so big.I covered my eyes with my hands.I was afraid to look…but I was afraid not to look.

　　After a time I took my hands away from my eyes.The trees were still there.They weren't moving.

　　I suddenly understood that the trees couldn't move.They were plants,like potatoes or rice.I was safe standing under them.

　　But I didn't feel safe.

　　The computer inside my spacesuit was checking the air for me.After a few seconds the red lights on my suit turned to green.The air here was safe for humans.So I took off my spacesuit.

　　Now I could touch and smell things.There was a soft wind.It was cool.I smelt…strange new smells.I smelt living things.Was I smelling the trees…or something else?

　　I heard a sound of crying.Then I thought I heard something moving in the trees-just behind one big tree.

　　Was something hiding behind the tree?I was frightened but I wanted to see,so I walked slowly towards the tree.

　　There was light in this place but there were shadows in the trees.I looked round the tree…

　　I was frightened almost out of my mind.I fell down and my body started shaking.

　　A grey thing came out from behind the tree and came towards me. It was big but it wasn't tall because it walked on four feet.It had no hands.

　　But the thing had teeth.Yes,it had a mouth full of teeth,yellow, shiny teeth. It had yellow eyes and grey hair all over its body.I could smell it…

　　Its mouth came towards my face.I closed my eyes and waited to die.

　　There was hot air on my face.I wanted to scream and scream but I was too frightened.I couldn't scream.

　　My mind exploded.I went crazy.I suddenly hit the grey thing and it fell back against the tree.I hit it again,as hard as I could.

　　I wanted to destroy the grey thing and I was screaming.Suddenly it was gone.

　　Then I saw another monster.This one was very small with grey fur all over its body. It was holding on to the tree but I pulled it off.I could destroy this one!

　　I pulled its short legs hard.The small monster bit me.Its teeth went right into my finger.The pain was terrible.

　　But my mind was exploding.I wanted to destroy it and I didn't care about the pain.I just wanted to kill it.

　　Then the big grey monster ran back through the trees,jumped at me and knocked me down.As I fell,I dropped the little monster and it escaped.

　　My head banged on a rock and everything went black.

　

3 怪物

　

　　隧道的尽头有一个门。我进去了……

　　我在做梦吧!我看见地上长出的很大的东西。它们比我高许多,长着长长的棕色臂膀,上面有绿色的叶子盖着。

　　我怕极了,我想起《往事追忆》中说的：“那时候有树……”

　　树!

　　我从没想过生物会长得这么大。我用手捂住眼睛。我不敢看……可不看我也害怕。

　　过了一会儿,我把手从眼前拿开。树还在那儿,它们一动不动。

　　我马上明白了,树不会动。它们是植物,象土豆和水稻一样。我站在树下是安全的。

　　可我感到并不安全。

　　我太空服里的电脑正在替我检查空气状况。几秒钟后,我太空服里的红灯变成了绿灯。这儿的空气对人类是安全的。于是我脱下了太空服。

　　这样我就可以触摸和闻东西了。微风袭来,有些凉意。我闻到了什么气味,一种怪怪的、从没闻到过的气味。是生物的气味。我闻到的是树么,还是其他什么东西?

　　我听到一阵叫声。然后我想我听见树后有东西在动--就在一棵大树后面。

　　有东西藏在树后面么?我很害怕,可我又想看看,于是我慢慢地朝树走了过去。

　　这地方有光亮,但树丛里却有些黑影。我绕过树一看……

　　我几乎吓晕过去。我倒在地上,身体颤抖起来。

　　一个灰色的东西从树后闪出来,朝我而来。它很大,但不高,因为它是四条腿走路的。它没有手。

　　那东西长着牙齿。对,长着满口黄色、闪亮的牙齿。它还长着黄色的眼睛,浑身上下都是灰色的毛。我能闻到它的气味。

　　它的嘴巴凑到我脸上。我闭上眼睛,等死。

　　我感觉到脸上有热乎乎的气息。我想放声大叫,可我被吓呆了。我叫不出声来。

　　我脑子吓懵了,变得狂乱。我猛击那个灰不溜秋的东西,它退后撞到树上。我又打了一下,使出了全身的力气。

　　我想打死那个灰色家伙,我尖叫着。突然,它不见了。

　　然后我又看到另外一只怪物。这东西很小,全身都是灰色的皮毛。它伏在树上。我把它拉了下来。这一个我能消灭!

　　我使劲儿拽着它的短腿。这小怪物咬了我一口。它的牙齿咬进了我的手指。疼死了。

　　但我疯狂了。我一心想除掉它,顾不上疼痛。我就是想弄死它。

　　接着,那只大怪物从树丛里跑出来,扑向我,把我打倒了。这一摔,我放走了那小怪物,让它逃开了。

　　我的头撞在了一块石头上,眼前的一切都变黑了。

　　　
4 More monsters

　

　　There was a long black nose in front of my face. It was smelling me.

　　At first I couldn't understand what was happening.Then I remembered.The monster with teeth!

　　I tried to hit the nose but my arm didn't move.Something was wrong with me.My body felt empty and I was hot inside,like a fire.My body ached and my skin was wet all over.

　　The big grey monster sat in front of me and it looked at me.

　　Then I saw the small monster too.It was lying on the ground.It was hurt.It was very small,just a little bigger than my hand.It had a beautiful soft tail and it made a sad sound：'Eee-eee!'

　　I felt two different things at the same time.I wanted to destroy it…but I also felt sorry for it.It was feeling pain,like me.

　　I didn't know what to do so I started to cry.

　　The big monster lay down next to me with its fur against my skin.I hated the feeling of its fur but my body couldn't move.

　　The fur made my skin dry and I began to feel better.I suddenly felt very tired and I was soon asleep.

　　I woke up feeling better.I wasn't hot inside and I could move again.

　　The big monster sat down with me.I hit it with my hand but I still wasn't strong.I didn't hurt it.

　　Then the monster opened its mouth and called：'Hoo-woo!'

　　Some time passed.Then more monsters came.More and more.Most of the monsters walked on four legs.A very big one licked me with its tongue.It was a hard tongue,not like my soft tongue.But I felt better afterwards.That monster made a noise like this：'Hee-haw!'

　　There was a very small monster that could fly.It had wings and a long hard mouth.It made a noise like this：'Cheepcheep!'

　　It cleaned my finger where Eee-Eee had bitten me.CheepCheep's hard little mouth was good at that.

　　I must tell the truth.I wanted to take a laser gun and kill all those monsters. They weren't hurting me.They were helping me.They were nice.

　　But something in my mind hated them.I didn't want to have to think about them.

　　But I didn't have a laser gun so I couldn't destroy them.

　　One monster brought me water.Another monster gave me some fruit to eat.A few monsters lay against my body and made me warm.They helped me in many ways but there was something sick in my mind.I still hated them. I will try to explain.For twenty thousand years the Galaxy had belonged to humans.Everything in the Galaxy belonged to us.

　　When a new baby comes into a family,the first child hates the baby.The first child wants to be the most important, and to keep everything for itself.It is afraid the baby will take things away from it.

　　It was like that with me.I wanted to fight these monsters.I didn't want them living with me,in my Galaxy.

　　One day two humans came through the trees.I stood up.I was stronger now.'Oh,thank Earth-and-animals!'I said and ran towards them.

　　The humans looked at me with big round eyes. One human was a man with long hair.He said,'Gug-gug-gug!'

　　Then he went down on the ground on his hands and knees,like a baby.He ran round me,smelling me.

　　The woman said,'Yee-yee-yee!'she jumped up on a branch of a tree.

　　They were humans but they were just like the monsters.They couldn't talk to me.

　　I started to feel miserable.The monsters tried to give me food but I didn't care about eating.

　　The monster that said'Hee-haw!'carried me on its back and we went to a little river.Hee－Haw dropped me into the water.I didn't care if I was clean or dirty,but Hee－Haw kicked water over me and washed me.

　　The big grey monster that said'Hoo-woo!'was worried about me.I didn't eat very much and I didn't wash myself.I just sat.

　　One day Hoo-Woo came with Hee-Haw.Hee-Haw carried me through the trees and the three of us travelled a long way.Finally we came to a high plastic wall.

　　Hoo-Woo pushed open a door in the wall and we went through.On the other side the air was hot and wet and the trees were bigger.There were monsters but they were different.

　　Hee-Haw carried me a long way through this forest.In the end we arrived at another plastic wall where there was another door.

　　Hoo－Woo opened the door and we entered a long tunnel.At the end of the tunnel was another door.At first Hoo-Woo waited outside this door,looking worried.I looked at the door.What was on the other side?Why was Hoo-Woo so worried?In the end he opened the door.

　　I saw a small round room just for a second.Then a terrible bright light came out.After that I couldn't see inside any more；it was too bright.I was very frightened.I felt this fear deep inside me.

　　Hee-Haw's head touched the ground.Hoo－Woo's head touched the ground too.I understood.This was their God!I understood because I felt the same fear as they did.

　　Hoo-Woo pushed me towards the light.

　

4 还有怪物

　

　　一只长长的黑鼻子探到我面前,正在嗅我。

　　起初,我不知道发生了什么。接着就想了起来。那个长着牙齿的怪物!

　　我想打它的鼻子,可我的胳膊动不了。我哪儿受伤了。我的身体什么也感觉不到,只觉得热,象火一样。我全身酸痛,身上的皮肤都湿了。

　　那只灰色的大怪物坐在我面前,看着我。

　　接着,我又看到那只小怪物。它躺在地上,受了伤。它非常小,比我的手大不了多少。它长着一条漂亮松软的尾巴,发出一声哀叫：“噫--噫!”

　　我同时有两种截然不同的感觉。我想除掉它,可又挺同情它。它觉得疼,象我一样。

　　我不知道该怎么办,于是哭了起来。

　　那只大怪物挨着我躺了下来,毛贴着我的皮肤。我讨厌它的皮毛的感觉,但我的身体动不了。

　　皮毛弄干了我的皮肤,我开始感觉好些了。我突然觉得筋疲力竭,很快就睡着了。

　　我醒来的时候感觉好多了。我身体里面不热了,而且又能动弹了。

　　那只大怪物和我坐在一起。我用手打了它一下,但我还是没劲儿。我伤不着它。

　　于是,那怪物张开嘴吼叫道：“呼呜!”

　　过了一段时间后,又来了些怪物,越来越多。多数怪物都是四条腿走路的。有一只非常大的还用舌头舔我。那舌头很硬,不象我的舌头软软的。但后来我觉得好一些。那只怪物发出一种“嘻--嗬!”的声音。

　　有一只很小的会飞的怪物,它长着翅膀和一只又长又硬的嘴巴。它发出一种“嘁--嘁”的声音。

　　它把“噫噫”咬我手指的地方弄干净了。“嘁嘁”的小硬嘴正好擅长干这个。

　　我得说实话。我想拿起一支激光枪把这些怪物都杀掉。它们并不伤害我。它们帮助我。它们挺好的。

　　但我头脑中的不知什么东西讨厌它们。我不愿被迫去想它们。

　　可我没有激光枪,所以不能消灭它们。

　　一只怪物给我弄来了水,另一只怪物给我些果子吃。有几个怪物靠着我的身体躺下,给我保暖。它们用各种办法帮助我,但我的头脑中总有恶心的念头。我还是恨它们。

　　我要解释一下。两万年了,银河系都是属于人类的,银河系里的所有东西都属于我们。

　　当一个家庭新降生了一个婴儿,第一个孩子就会恨这个婴儿。第一个孩子想成为最重要的,想把什么都留给自己。他害怕新婴儿会把什么东西拿走。

　　我就象这样。我想同这些怪物争抢。我不想让它们和我一起,生活在我的银河系里。

　　一天,有两个人从树林里出来。我站了起来。我现在强壮多了。“噢,感谢地球及其动物们!”我说着跑向他们。

　　那两个人睁圆了眼睛看着我。一个是头很长发的男人。他说道：“咕--咕--咕!”

　　然后他手脚伏在地上,象个孩子似的。他边围着我跑,边嗅我。

　　那个女人说着：“咦--咦--咦!”,跳到了一根树枝上。

　　他们虽然是人,却和动物一样。他们不能和我说话。

　　于是,我觉得十分难过。怪物们想办法给我吃的,可我不想吃。

　　“嘻--嗬!”叫的那个怪物把我驮在它背上,我们一起走到一条小河边。“嘻嗬”把我扔到水里。我并不在乎自己是干净还是脏,可“嘻嗬”向我身上踢水,为我冲洗。

　　“呼呜”叫的那只灰色大怪物为我担心。我吃的不多,也不洗漱。我只是傻坐着。

　　一天,“呼呜”和“嘻嗬”一起走来。“嘻嗬”驮着我穿过树林,我们三个走了很远。最后我们来到一堵高高的塑料墙面前。

　　“呼呜”推开墙上的一扇门,我们走了过去。墙的另一面空气很湿热,树也要大一些。也有怪物,但长的不一样。

　　“嘻嗬”驮着我在这片森林里走了很远。最后我们来到另一堵塑料墙前,墙上也有一扇门。

　　“呼呜”打开门,我们进入了一条长长的隧道。隧道的尽头又有一扇门。开始“呼呜”等在门外,面露愁容。我看着那扇门。墙那边是什么?为什么“呼呜”这么忧心忡忡的?最后他还是打开了门。

　　我看见一个小圆房间,但只是一瞬间的事。接着,一束耀眼的灯光射出来。后来,里面亮得我都不敢看了。我非常害怕,从心底里感到恐惧。

　　“嘻嗬”的头伏到地上,“呼呜”的头也伏到了地上。我明白了。这是它们的上帝!我明白了,因为我同它们一样感到恐惧。

　　“呼呜”把我推向那盏灯。

　　　
5 Waiting for fifteen thousand years

　

　　'It's too bright in here,'I said.'I can't see.'

　　The light suddenly wasn't so bright and I could see again.I was in a round room,which was empty except for a large square computer.

　　The computer didn't look like the modern computers we have.

　　'You are't God!'I said.'You're just a computer!Just a strange old computer!'

　　A voice came from it.'Yes,this is computer.Who are you?'

　　Oh,the computer still worked!I was surprised as it looked so very old.It didn't speak in a natural way as modern computers do.

　　'I'm Hummingbird,'I answered.

　　'You are not a hummingbird.Hummingbirds fly in the forests here,in Star Zoo.You are human.You are not a child of Star Zoo.Computer is happy.'

　　I listened but I didn't understand.'Hummingbird'was just my name-and the name of one of the animals in the Book of Remembering.Why was this place called the Star Zoo?What was a 'zoo'?I had so many questions to ask!

　　'Computer,'I said,'where do you come from?I never heard of a spaceship as big as this!You speak my language but it sounds different.Why do Hee-Haw and Hoo-Woo think you're God?'

　　'Who is Hee-Haw?Who is Hoo-Woo?'the computer asked.

　　'The two monsters that brought me here,'I answered.

　　'Yes.Dondey.Wolf.All animals believe computer is God.Computer makes ultrasonic sound.Ultrasonics make fear.'

　　'Animals?'I said slowly.Animals were only a story in the Book of Remembering.There were no animals alive today.What was the computer talking about?'Animals…like EeeEee and Cheep-Cheep?'

　　'Eee－Eee is a squirrel,'the computer said.'Cheep-Cheep is a bird.Animals take care of you.'

　　I was very afraid.Donkey,wolf,squirrel,and bird were all animals named in the Book of Remembering.

　　'Where did these animals come from?'I asked.

　　'Star Zoo came from Earth,'the computer answered.'Star Zoo left Earth.Earth was hot.'

　　I suddenly couldn't stand.I fell down and my mind exploded again.This time I wasn't angry.I was sad,empty,afraid,and a little crazy.This was the Book of Remembering come to life!

　　Earth hot?That was the Burning!We made the Earth too hot and all life except humans died.And we humans did it!

　　'Not necessary to fall down,'the computer said.'Computer is not God.Computer wants to talk to humans.Computer is sad that humans have not spoken for fifteen thousand years.'

　　I stood up slowly.The Book of Remembering was forremembering the animals but they had been dead for twenty thousand years.

　　But the animals were here!Yes,here in the Star Zoo,after travelling between stars for twenty thousand years!

　　'Why did you leave Earth?What happened?'I asked.

　　The computer answered,'Humans polluted Earth.Earth was hot.Animals died.'

　　'Yes,'I said.'I know that.'

　　The computer continued,'Humans made zoo in space.No money.Used plastic bottles.'

　　'What?'I said.I didn't understand.

　　'Collected old plastic bottles.Made zoo with plastic bottles.Cheap.Made big zoo with many rooms.'

　　'Why are there different rooms?'I asked.

　　'Animals and plants live in different ways,'the computer said.'Hot,cold,wet,dry.Impossible to keep all animals and all plants in one room.Need different things.Difficult work to get everything right.Necessary to have big computer.No money.Got old computer from army.'

　　'So that's you?'I said.'You're an old army computer from Earth?'

　　'Computer works and never stops.'

　　'I understand!'I said.'A group of people made this Star Zoo.They knew that Earth was dying.They wanted to save the animals.They sent the Star Zoo away from Earth.'

　　'Star Zoo went,'the computer said.'No money.Went slowly.'

　　'Very slowly,'I agreed.'But What happened to the humans inside the Star Zoo?'

　　'Five thousand years humans gave orders.Computer worked.Computer mended walls.Computer kept Star Zoo alive and safe.Star Zoo worked well.No problems.Humans stopped giving orders.Not necessary to talk. Humans enjoyed eating,playing,sleeping.Computer can do work.For fifteen thousand years computer has worked,thought,learnt,grown.Now you have come.Computer is happy.'

　　I was happy too and I wasn't afraid.It was wonderful news.The Galaxy wasn't empty!Animals could live on all the worlds and all humans could be happy again.

　　Humans were lonely without animals.Humans needed animals.

　　'The animals must leave the Star Zoo,'I said to the computer.'We have planets where they can live.Do you agree?'

　　'Star Zoo is not strong,'the computer said.'Holes in walls lose air and water.Animals need planets.Can have more animals on planets.'

　　'Then I must go home,'I said.'I will come back with spaceships.We will take the animals to different planets.Planets everywhere in the Galaxy.'

　　'Computer will choose planets for different animals,'it said.'First plants will grow.Animals will follow.'

　　'You can tell us what to do,'I said.'This is wonderful.

　　I want to leave now.Is Hee-Haw waiting?'

　　'Donkey waits.'the computer made a noise that was like crying.'Donkey has waited for a few minutes.Computer has waited for fifteen thousand years.You come back.Computer is sad and afraid.'

　

5 一万五千年的等待

　

　　“这儿太亮了,”我说,“我看不见。”

　　那盏灯马上暗了一些,我又看得见了。我站在一个圆圆的房间里,屋里除了一台四四方方的大电脑外什么也没有。

　　这台电脑看上去和我们用的现代电脑不一样。

　　“你不是上帝!”我说,“你不过是台电脑而已!一台怪模怪样的破电脑而已!”

　　里面传出一个声音：“对,我是电脑。你是谁?”

　　噢,这电脑还能运转!我很惊奇,因为看上去它太破旧了。它说话的腔调不像现代电脑那么自然。

　　“我是蜂鸟,”我回答。

　　“你不是蜂鸟。蜂鸟是在这森林里飞的,在星际动物园。你是人。你不是星际动物园的孩子。电脑很高兴。”

　　我听着,但无法理解。“蜂鸟”只是我的名字--《往事追忆》中一种动物的名字。这个地方为什么叫星际动物园?什么是“动物园”?我有好多问题要问!

　　“电脑,”我说,“你是哪儿来的?我从没听说过这么大的飞船!你讲的是我的语言,可听起来不大一样。为什么'嘻嗬'和'呼呜'把你当上帝?”

　　“'嘻嗬'是谁?'呼呜'又是谁?”电脑问道。

　　“带我到这儿来的那两个怪物,”我回答。

　　“哦。驴子、狼。所有的动物都把电脑当成上帝。电脑能发出超声波。超声波能引起恐惧。”

　　“动物?”我慢慢地问道。动物不过是《往事追忆》中的故事。今天没有活着的动物了。这电脑在胡说什么?“动物……'噫噫'和'嘁嘁'那样的?”

　　“'噫噫'是只松鼠,”电脑说,“'嘁嘁'是只鸟。照料你的都是动物。”

　　我很害怕。驴子、狼、松鼠和鸟都是《往事追忆》中动物的名字。

　　“这些动物是哪儿来的?”我问道。

　　“星际动物园来自地球,”电脑回答,“星际动物园离开了地球。地球热。”

　　我突然站不住了。我倒了下去,头脑又发懵了。这次我没有感到愤怒。我难过、空虚、恐惧,还有点狂乱。《往事追忆》变成了活生生的现实!

　　地球热?那是因为大火灾!我们把地球弄热了,除了人类以外,所有的生物都死了。那是我们人类干的!

　　“不必趴下,”电脑说,“电脑不是上帝。电脑想和人说话。电脑难过,人类已经一万五千年没说话了。”

　　我慢慢站起来。《往事追忆》是为了纪念动物的,但它们已经灭亡了两万年。

　　可动物就在这儿!是的,在星际动物园这儿,在星际间运行了两万年后到了这儿!

　　“你们为什么离开地球?发生了什么事?”我问。

　　电脑回答：“人类污染了地球。地球热。动物死了。”

　　“是的,”我说。“我知道这些。”

　　电脑接着说：“人类在太空建造动物园。没有钱,就用塑料瓶子。”

　　“什么?”我说。我不明白。

　　“回收旧塑料瓶子,用塑料瓶子建造动物园。便宜。建造了有很多房间的大动物园。”

　　“为什么要分不同的房间?”我问。

　　“动物和植物的生活方式各不相同,”电脑说,“热的、冷的、湿的、干的。不可能把所有动物和所有植物都放在同一个房间里。需要不同的东西。把一切都弄好是困难的工作。需要有大电脑。没有钱,从军队弄来旧电脑。”

　　“就是你吗?”我说,“你是从地球来的旧军用电脑?”

　　“电脑永远工作,从不停止。”

　　“我知道!”我说,“有一些人建造了这个星际动物园。他们知道地球就要灭亡。他们希望拯救动物。他们把星际动物园从地球上发射走了。”

　　“星际动物园走了,”电脑说,“没有钱。慢慢地走了。”

　　“非常慢,”我也这么认为。“但星际动物园里的人呢?”

　　“人类在5000年发布指令。电脑执行。电脑修补墙壁。电脑维持星际动物园的生存和安全。星际动物园运转良好。没有问题。人类不再给指令了。没有必要说话。人类喜欢吃、玩、睡。电脑可以工作。一万五千年了,电脑工作、思想、学习、成长。现在你来了。电脑高兴。”

　　我也高兴,我不害怕了。这是个好消息。银河系不再是空荡荡的了!动物们可以在任何世界上生活,所有的人类又可以快乐了。

　　没有动物,人类感觉孤独。人类需要动物。

　　“动物们得离开星际动物园,”我对电脑说,“我们有行星,它们可以在上面生活。你同意么?”

　　“星际动物园不结实,”电脑说,“墙上的破洞漏气、漏水。动物们需要行星。行星上可以有更多的动物生活。”

　　“那我必须回家,”我说,“我会带着些飞船来。我们把动物送到各个行星上去。银河系里的所有行星。”

　　“电脑将为不同的动物挑选行星,”它说,“先种植物。接着是动物。”

　　“你可以告诉我们怎么做,”我说,“这太好了。我现在要走了。'嘻嗬'还在等着吗?”

　　“驴子在等着。”电脑发出一种像哭一样的声音：“驴子等了几分钟。电脑等了一万五千年。你回来了。电脑又难过,又害怕。”

　6 They don't believe me

　

　　Where was my spacesuit?

　　Eee-Eee found it up in a tree where another squirrel was living in it.Eee-Eee told the squirrel to get out of my spacesuit.

　　I was happy to wear the spacesuit.Hoo-Woo took me to the door where I first came in.

　　Hoo-Woo made his noise：'Hoo-woo!'as I opened the door.He was sad that I was going.

　　I said,'I'm coming back,'and I went out to my spaceship.

　　I got in and said,'Take me home.'

　　The stars changed suddenly.I saw my world in space,all green and beautiful.A few minutes later the spaceship landed and I was home.

　　My father ran from the house shouting,'Hummy!'

　　I kissed my father.

　　My mother was angry with me.'I didn't know if you were dead or alive!'she cried.'It's been a week!'

　　A week!It felt like months to me.

　　'I've got some very exciting news for you,'I said.

　　'OK,'my mother said.'Let's sit in the theat and talk there.Oh yes,'she said to my father,'why don't you go to the house and bring us something to drink?'

　　Strange.Robots usually bring the drinks.But I just thought my mother wanted to be specially nice to me.

　　I told my mother what had happened.When my father came with drinks,I told my story anain.

　　Telling my story,I looked at the green fields of wheat moving in the wind.The wheat went on for thousands of miles,looking just the same everywhere.

　　How different it was in the Star Zoo!Every time you turned your head, you saw something new.That had frightened me at first but now I thought the Star Zoo was wonderful.

　　I explained that feeling to my parents.

　　'Yes,yes,Hummy,'my mother said,looking quickly at my father.

　　I saw a spaceship land near the house.'Who's coming?'I asked.

　　My mother and father looked at each other.Then I knew.

　　'It's Buff,isn't it?'I said.'You called him when you were getting the drinks!'I said to my father.I was really angry.'How could you?Wait!You don't believe me,do you?'

　　'Your head is full of dreams, Hummy,'my father said.'You must be married to Buff,but only for a year.Then you can get married to someone you like.'

　　I jumped up.'I hate you!Why did I come back?Why didn't I go straight to the Star Council?'

　　Buff walked up to us.'Hello again,Kate,'he said.'I still remember the first name you told me.'

　　I had an idea.'Listen to what happened to me,'I said,and Itold my story a third time.

　　Buff laughed.' What a story!You can tell me stories like that every night.'

　　'So you don't believe me?'I smiled.

　　He just laughed.

　　'OK,Buff,'I said.'Come with me.I'll show you the Star Zoo.If it's only a story, I'll marry you. I'll even get married for five years if you want.OK?'

　　'Why not?'Buff said.'I'll bring a robot to see what's really there.Robots never lie.'

　　Buff borrowed one of our family robots and we took off.My father watched us go with a worried face.

　　It was black in the empty space far between stars and we couldn't see anything.Buff was surprised when we landed onthe Star Zoo.

　　We put on spacesuits and went out.Buff looked at the door,very surprised. We went in.

　　After we went through the second door,Buff stood without moving and he looked at the trees and didn't say anything. The robot closed the door behind us.

　　Hoo－Woo ran out of the trees to meet me. I was happy to see him and happy to be back in the Star Zoo again. I wasn't afraid at all.

　　I looked round at Buff and my heart stopped.Buff's face was full of hate and he was holding a laser gun.The gun was pointing at Hoo－Woo.

　

6 他们不相信我

　

　　我的太空服哪儿去啦?

　　“噫噫”在一棵树上找到了它,另一只松鼠住在里面。“噫噫”叫那只松鼠从我的太空服里出来。

　　穿上太空服我很高兴。“呼呜”把我带到起初我进来的门那儿。

　　我开门的时候,呼呜叫了一声：“呼--呜!”。我要走了,它有些难过。

　　我说：“我会回来的。”然后就出去回到了我的飞船上。

　　我进了飞船,说道：“带我回家。”

　　星星突然变了。我看见我的星球在太空中,全是绿色,很美。几分钟后飞船着陆,我回到了家。

　　爸爸从房子里跑出来,喊道：“蜂儿!”

　　我亲了爸爸。

　　妈妈在生我的气。“我不知道你是死是活!”她大声说,“整整一个星期!”

　　一个星期!我觉得象是好几个月了。

　　“我给你们带来一个非常令人激动的消息,”我说。

　　“好,”妈妈说,“我们到麦田里坐下谈谈。哦,对了,”她对爸爸说,“你能不能到房子里给我们拿点喝的?”

　　奇怪,一般是机器人拿饮料的。但我只以为妈妈是想对我特别地好些。

　　我把所发生的事情跟妈妈说了。爸爸把饮料拿来后,我又把事情说了一遍。

　　我一边讲着我的经历,一边看着绿油油的麦田在风中摇曳。麦田绵延数千英里,哪儿看上去都一个样。

　　星际动物园里就截然不同!每当你转过头,就能看到新的东西。一开始,还把我吓了一跳,可现在我觉得星际动物园真棒。

　　我把我的感觉向父母说了。

　　“好了,好了,蜂儿,”妈妈说,并很快地瞥了爸爸一眼。

　　我看到有一只飞船降落在房子旁边。“谁来了?”我问道。

　　妈妈和爸爸对视了一眼。我马上就明白了。

　　“是牛子,对不对?”我说,“你拿饮料的时候给他打电话了!”我对爸爸说。我真的生气了。“你怎么能这样?等一等!你们不相信我,是吗?”

　　“你的脑子里充满梦想,蜂儿。”爸爸说,“你得嫁给牛子,不过是一年的事。然后你可以嫁给一个你喜欢的人。”

　　我跳了起来。“我恨你们!我为什么要回来?我为什么不直接去星际理事会?”

　　牛子朝我们走来。“又见面了,虫子。”他说,“我还记得你第一次告诉我的名字。”

　　我想出了个主意。“你听听我都经历了些什么。”我说。接着,我又把事情讲了一遍。

　　牛子笑了。“好一个故事!你每天晚上都可以给我讲这样的故事。”

　　“这么说你不相信我?”我笑道。

　　他只是笑。

　　“好,牛子,”我说,“跟我来。我带你去看星际动物园。如果是假的,我就嫁给你。如果你愿意,我可以嫁给你五年。行吗?”

　　“有什么不好?”牛子说,“我要带一个机器人去看看到底是怎么回事儿。机器人从不撒谎。”

　　牛子带上我家的一个机器人,我们就起飞了。我爸爸面露愁容地看着我们走了。

　　星星之间的茫茫太空一片漆黑,我们什么也看不见。我们星际动物园着陆时牛子很吃惊。

　　我们穿上太空服到了外面。牛子看着那扇门,惊讶万分。我们走了进去。

　　我们穿过第二道门,牛子一动不动地站住了,他看着那些树,没有说话。机器人在后面把门关上。

　　“呼呜”从树林里跑出来迎接我。我很高兴看到它,也很高兴又回到星际动物园。我一点都不怕。

　　我回头去看牛子,我的心差点儿停止了跳动。牛子满脸憎恶,他手里拿着一支激光枪。枪是对准“呼鸣”的。

　　　
7 The answer is robots

　

　　Ipushed Buff as he tried to shoot Hoo-Woo.The laser gun burnt a hole in the plastic wall,but it didn't hit Hoo－Woo.

　　Buff was screaming and the whites of his eyes were showing.He fell on the ground and water ran out of his mouth.He was crazy.I remembered the way I had gone crazy when I first came into the Star Zoo. It was seeing the animals. It was the Book of Remembering coming to life.It made people go crazy.

　　I hid Buff's laser gun and used some long plants to tie him up.Hee-Haw sat on him while I did it.A bell was ringing and all the animals started looking for something.What were they looking for?

　　A bird found it.It was the hole where the laser had burnt through the wall.The Star Zoo was losing air. I could hear the air escaping.

　　It was the computer's job to check for damage like that.Then it rang the bell. But how could the animals mend the hole?

　　Eee－Eee went to a pipe on the wall and waited.Warm wet plastic came out of the end of the pipe.The squirrel held little bits of the plastic and ran quickly up the wall. She put the soft plastic over the hole and ran down to get more plastic from the pipe.

　　In one minute the hole was covered.Eee－Eee went on working until the bell stopped ringing.

　　The computer and the animals worked together to mend the Star Zoo.After fifteen thousand years they were very good at it!

　　Buff had crazy eyes.The animals didn't want to go near him so I took care of him. I hoped he would get better soon.

　　But he didn't get better.Three days later he still wanted to kill and destroy every animal that he saw.He thought I was ananimal too.

　　He never spoke.Perhaps he had forgotten how to speak.Hewouldn't touch food or water.

　　I didn't know what to do. In the end I went to see the computer with Hee－Haw and the robot.

　　There was the same terrible light and the fear.But I knew it was ultrasonics that made me afraid.The robot didn't have any feelings,of course. The robot and I went into the computer room but Hee-Haw stayed outside.

　　The ultrasonics stopped and the light went soft.

　　'Hummingbird,'the computer said.'You have come back.Computer is happy.Who is the other human?'

　　'This isn't a human,'I explained.'This is just a family robot.'

　　'Not human?Looks very human.'

　　'I know,'I said.'But that's not important.Everything's gone crazy!''What is the problem?'the computer asked.

　　I told the computer about visiting my parents and that they didn't believe me.I explained about Buff and said,'But he's gone crazy.I know I went crazy at first but I got better.Buff isn't getting better.'

　　'Why?'the computer said.'You are human.Buff is human.What is different?'

　　'I don't know,'I answered.'I'm younger than Buff.Perhaps people's minds get hard like rock as they get older.They can't change how they think.'

　　'When will Buff get better?'the computer asked.

　　'Never…I think,'I said.'Buff's too old.'

　　There was silence.After a long time the computer said slowly, 'Computer is old.'

　　'Oh,that's different,'I said.'I think you are growing very,very slowly.I think you're still young,like me You're still growing and changing.Not like Buff.'

　　Another silence.Then,'Hummingbird is friend.'

　　I felt wonderful.The computer was twenty thousand years old and it wanted to be friends with me!

　　'Yes, I'm your friend,computer,'I said.'I'll be your friend all my life, but my life isn't long like yours Perhaps my children and grandchildren can be your friends too.'

　　'Computer is happy.'

　　'Oh,computer,everything's finished!'I said.'I thought Buff could learn to accept the animals like me, but he can't.He can't change how he thinks.And I think most people in the Galaxy are like him.They can't change.If they find the Star Zoo,they'll destroy all the animals.So it's impossible! We can't put the animals on different planets.The animals will have to stay in the Star Zoo.One day the Star Zoo will die.After that there will be no life in the Galaxy except humans.Forever.

　　The computer said,'Computer will find answer to problem.Wait.'

　　I waited.And waited.I couldn't understand it.Computers think so fast!Why wasn't the computer telling me theanswer?

　　At last it spoke.'Computer has answer to problem.The answer is robots. Your robot looks very human. You will make a robot like an animal Humans will know it is a robot, not an animal.Humans will not go crazy.Humans will learn about animals.After some time humans will meet animals.Humans will not go crazy.'

　　'I think I understand,'I said.'People have to spend a long time with robot animals first. When they are not afraid, they can meet the real animals and accept them. Yes, it's a wonderful idea,computer!I could kiss you!'

　　'Nobody has kissed computer.Computer is interested.'

　　So I kissed the computer and I think it kissed me.

　

7 答案是机器人

　

　　当牛子要向“呼呜”射击时,我把他推开了。激光枪在塑料墙上烧出一个洞,但没打着“呼呜”。

　　牛子尖叫起来,翻着白眼。他倒在地上,嘴里流出口水。他发疯了。我还记得第一次来到星际动物园时我发疯的样子。都是看到动物的缘故。因为《往事追忆》突然变成真的了。这确实会让人发疯的。

　　我把牛子的激光枪藏了起来,然后用一些长长的植物把他绑上。我绑的时候“嘻嗬”坐在他身上。一声铃响,所有的动物都开始找什么东西。它们在找什么呢?

　　有一只鸟发现了。它们找的是激光枪在墙上烧出的洞。

　　星际动物园在漏气。我能听见漏气的声音。

　　检查这样的破损是电脑的事。然后它会响铃。但动物怎么补这个洞呢?

　　“噫噫”走到墙上的一根管子那儿等着。管子的出口流出热乎乎的液体塑料。松鼠拿着小块塑料快步跑到墙上。她把软塑料放在洞上,然后跑下去到管子那儿去取更多的塑料。

　　洞很快就被补上了。“噫噫”一直在干,直到铃声停止。

　　电脑和动物一起修补星际动物园。经过一万五千年,它们对此十分熟练了!

　　牛子的目光还是狂乱的。动物们不想靠近他,只有我照料他。我希望他早点儿好过来。

　　但他没有。三天后他还是见动物就想杀、就想摧毁。他把我也当动物了。

　　他一句话也不说。也许他已经忘记怎么说话了。他不肯吃饭,水也不肯沾。

　　我不知道该怎么办。最后,我与“嘻嗬”和机器人会见电脑。

　　还是那盏眩目的灯光,还是一样的恐惧。但我知道让我害怕的是超声波。当然,机器人什么感觉也没有。机器人和我进了电脑室,但“嘻嗬”留在外面。

　　超声波停了,灯光也弱了一些。

　　“蜂鸟,”电脑说,“你回来了。电脑高兴。另一个人是谁?”

　　“这不是人。”我解释道,“这只是个家用机器人。”

　　“不是人?看上去很象人。”

　　“我知道,”我说,“可这不重要。大家都疯了!”

　　“出什么问题了?”电脑问道。

　　我向电脑讲了回去看父母,而他们不相信我的事。我解释了牛子的事,然后说：“可他疯了。我知道开始我也疯过,但后来又好了。牛子却一直没有好转。”

　　“为什么?”电脑问道,“你是人。牛子是人。有什么不同?”

　　“我不知道。”我回答,“我比牛子小。也许人随着年龄的增加,头脑也僵化得象岩石了。他们改变不了自己的想法。”

　　“牛子什么时候能好转?”电脑问道。

　　“不会好了……我想。”我说,“牛子太老了。”

　　沉默。过了好久,电脑缓缓地说道：“电脑也老了。”

　　“噢,那不一样。”我说,“我觉得你长得特别慢。我觉得你还很年轻,象我一样。你还在成长和变化。不象牛子。”

　　又是沉默。然后它说：“蜂鸟是朋友。”

　　我感觉好极了。这台电脑两万岁了,它还想和我做朋友!

　　“是的,我是你的朋友,电脑。”我说,“我永远都是你的朋友,可我的生命没有你那么长。也许我的孩子和孙子们也可以做你的朋友。”

　　“电脑高兴。”

　　“噢,电脑,一切都完了!”我说,“我还以为牛子会象我一样学着接受动物,可他不能。他不能改变他的想法。而且我想银河系的大多数人都会象他。他们无法改变。如果他们发现星际动物园,他们会消灭所有动物的。所以我们不能把动物送到不同的行星上。根本不可能!总有一天星际动物园会毁灭。以后,银河系除了人类就再也没有其他生物了。永远。”

　　电脑说：“电脑会找到这个问题的答案。等一等。”

　　我等着。等了又等。我弄不明白。电脑的思维很快!为什么电脑不告诉我答案?

　　它终于说话了：“电脑有这个问题的答案。答案是机器人。你们的机器人长得很象人。你们可以把机器人造成动物的样子。人类知道那是机器人,不是动物。这样人就不会发疯了。人类就可以了解动物。过一段时间再让人见动物。人就不会发疯了。”

　　“我想我明白了。”我说,“一开始,人得和机器动物相处很长一段时间。他们不害怕的时候就可以见真动物,接受它们。对,真是个好主意,电脑!我想亲亲你!”

　　“没有人亲过电脑。电脑有兴趣。”

　　于是我亲了电脑,我想它也亲了我。

　　　
8 An animal is made

　

　　Arobot can do many different things from taking care of a baby to building a spaceship.It can do anything except think.The Star Zoo computer was the only one that could think.

　　Well, our family robot could build a robot animal, easily. That was no problem.

　　First we had to choose what animal to make, so we went round the Star Zoo to look at all.the animals.Hee-Haw carried me and Hoo-Woo came with us.The robot followed.

　　I don't know how many rooms the Star Zoo had； I couldn't count them all.Some rooms were filled with water where there were big fish and small fish.There were horrible monsters walking under the water and I felt a little afraid again.

　　Some rooms were covered in snow and all the animals there had while fur.There were dry rooms, hot wet rooms, forest rooms…And animals and birds and trees and flowers!

　　There were more living things than I had ever dreamt of!

　　I sat on Hee-Haw's back as the donkey walked on.We went through a door into a room full of strange life, then we went through another door and into another room,It was like a dream.In a dream, things change suddenly,without reason.It was like that.

　　We went back to the computer.I didn't know which animal to choose and neither did the robot.Hee-Haw and Hoo-Woo didn't understand the problem；they weren't intelligent in the human way.

　　So I asked the computer.

　　'Watch humans,'the computer said.'Humans enjoy playing with animals.Find an animal which enjoys playing with humans.'

　　So we went to see the humans.

　　The humans in the Star Zoo couldn't speak. I sat down and watched them while the humans played up in the trees,swam in the pool and played games in the grass.They played all the time.

　　Most other animals didn't play with the humans.But finally I saw one animal come through the grass to play. It liked playing with humans!

　　The humans played with the animal for an hour.The animal and the humans enjoyed playing together.

　　'That's the animal you must make,'I told the robot.

　　The robot watched the animal and touched it and measured everything.In the end it was ready to build a robot just like that animal.

　　'What do you need to build it?'I asked.

　　'Plastic,'the robot answered.'I will use real fur on the outside.But I need some metal.Where can I find metal?'

　　There was only one thing in the Star Zoo made of metal－the computer!

　　The computer told the robot to take off two small pieces of metal from its back.

　　The robot worked fast.Sometimes it needed a special tool.Then it opened its stomach because the tools were kept inside the body there.

　　First,the robot made a plastic body which it covered with soft plastic,like a skin.Then it used fur to cover the skin.

　　I left before the robot finished because I was worried about Buff.I didn't want him to die.

　　Buff still wouldn't eat or drink But the worst thing was, he was still crazy.His mind wasn't getting better…

　　If Buff stays in the Star Zoo,I thought,he'll die.

　　I talked to him but he didn't answer.I knew he wanted to kill me.He wanted to kill all living things.

　　The robot finished its work and showed me a little animal.It looked,and sounded,and played like the real animal. I took it to the computer.

　　'Yes,it looks just like the animal,'the computer said.'It's very small-a baby animal.'the computer told me its name. It checked the animal,then said to the robot,'Make it warm.'

　　The little animal was cold.

　　So the robot made the baby animal warm, like the real animal.We were ready.

　　The robot put Buff to sleep,then put the spacesuit on him and carried him to the spaceship.

　　I was leaving the Star Zoo for the second time.Would our plan succeed, I wondered? Before I went through the door,I looked back at all the life that existed only here in the Star Zoo,and in no other place in all the Galaxy!

　

8 造出了一只动物

　

　　从照看婴儿到制造飞船,机器人能做许许多多不同的工作。除了思维,它无所不能。星际动物园的电脑是唯一能思维的。

　　没问题,我的家用机器人可以造一个机器动物,轻而易举。没有问题。

　　我们先得选择制造什么动物,于是我们在星际动物园走了一圈,把所有动物都看一看。“嘻嗬”驮着我,“呼呜”陪着我们。机器人跟在后面。

　　我弄不清星际动物园有多少房间,我无法全数过来。有的房间装着水,里面养着大鱼和小鱼。水下面还有可怕的怪物在行走,让我又觉得有点害怕。

　　有的房间被雪覆盖,所有的动物长着白色的皮毛。有干燥的房间、湿热的房间、森林房间……以及动物、鸟、树,还有花!

　　这儿的动物比我所想象的多得多!

　　我坐在“嘻嗬”的背上,驴子继续往前走。我们穿过一扇门,进入一个满是千奇百怪的生命的房间。然后,我们穿过另一扇门进入另一个房间。象在做梦一样。在梦中,事物变幻莫测,讲不清道理。就象是那样。

　　我们回到电脑那儿。我还是不知道该选择哪种动物,机器人也不知道。“嘻嗬”和“呼呜”不明白是怎么回事；它们没有人类这样的智慧。

　　于是我问电脑。

　　“看看人类。”电脑说,“人类喜欢和动物玩,找一只喜欢陪人类玩的动物。”

　　于是我们去看人类。

　　星际动物园的人不会说话。我坐在地上观察他们,他们在树上玩耍,在池子里游泳,在草地上玩游戏。他们总是在玩乐。

　　多数其他的动物都不和人玩。但最后我看见有只动物从草地里跑出来玩。它喜欢和人玩!

　　那些人和这只动物玩了一个小时。这只动物喜欢和那些人在一起玩。

　　“你得制造一个那样的动物。”我吩咐机器人。

　　机器人观察这只动物,抚摸它,上下都做了测量。最后,它准备好了,可以制造一个跟这只动物一样的机器动物。

　　“你需要用什么制造它?”我问。

　　“塑料,”机器人回答,“外面我打算用真皮毛。可我需要些金属。我能在哪儿找点金属?”

　　星际动物园里只有一样东西是用金属做的--电脑!

　　电脑让机器人从它的后背上取下两小块金属。

　　机器人干活儿很快。有时它需要一些专门的工具。于是它就打开自己的肚皮,因为工具是放在身体里边的。

　　首先,机器人做了一个塑料躯干,外面包上类似皮肤的软塑料。然后它又用皮毛盖住皮肤。

　　机器人还没有完工我就离开了,因为我担心牛子。我不希望他死。

　　牛子还是不肯吃喝。但最糟糕的是他还在发狂。他的头脑还是没有好转……

　　我想,要是牛子呆在星际动物园,他会死的。

　　我跟他说话,可他不回答。我知道他想杀死我。他想把所有活的东西都杀死。

　　机器人完成了工作,把一只小动物给我看。它的样子、声音和玩相都很象真动物。我把它带到电脑那儿。

　　“好,它和真动物一模一样。”电脑说,“它非常小--是只小动物。”电脑告诉了我它的名字。它检查了这只动物,然后对机器人说：“给它体温。”

　　这只小动物是冷的。

　　所以机器人就让它身体象真动物一样温暖。我们准备好了。

　　机器人让牛子入睡,然后替他穿上太空服,并把他背到飞船上。

　　我又要离开星际动物园了。我在想,我们的计划能成功吗?出门之前,我回头看了一眼--只有星际动物园才存在生命,银河系其他地方都没有!

　　　
9 An animal is destroyed

　

　　Buff was asleep.I told the spaceship to take us to New Earth,the planet of the Star Council.I wasn't going back to my parents.I wanted to go to the top people.

　　A few minutes later the spaceship was falling towards a planet covered with tall buildings.Many of the buildings touched the clouds.I'd never been to New Earth before.I was just a young girl from a small planet and I felt very unimportant here.

　　We landed.I could see a lot of people walking quickly.They didn't stand and talk.They were too busy.Who was going to stop and talk to a young girl like me?

　　Everybody was wearing very expensive,fashionable clothes too!I felt stupid with just my old clothes with my name 'Hummingbird'on.I said to the robot,'Make a special dress for me.I want to look more important.'

　　A minute later I had the dress.It didn't look very good.It was grey and just like an old bag.

　　I put on the dress and it suddenly came to life. It moved over me, full of changing colours .When I looked in a mirror, I couldn't believe it. I looked fantastic!

　　When I got out of the spaceship, I wasn't afraid of anybody.

　　At first I thought the Star Council buildings were the high ones,up in the clouds.They weren't.I had to go below ground to an office where I spoke to a policeman.He didn't believe my story about the Star Zoo…until the robot told him it was all true.Robots can't lie.

　　The policeman looked at me for a long time.In the end he called a Star Council official.

　　He and the policeman took me to a lift and we went down many floors.Then they put me in a room and asked me questions.They wanted to see the robot animal but I said no.I said only the Star Council could see the robot animal.

　　Three hours later they were still asking me questions and I couldn't keep my eyes open.I was so tired.My dress had lost its colours.It was just grey again.I didn't feel important. I felt like a child.

　　But I didn't show them the robot animal.

　　The official said,' I don't believe you.There are no animals in the Galaxy now.Perhaps there never were any animals.They're only stories in the Book of Remembering.'

　　'Well, why are you asking me so many questions?'I said.

　　'Because your robot tells the same story.Because you have a crazy man in you spaceship-he's in hospital now.'

　　Suddenly the official got up and took me to the lift.We went down,down, down, very fast.

　　We came out into a room in the shape of a star. I felt frightened because I knew this was the Star Room where the Star Council met.

　　The Council men and women came in and took their places at the Star Table. The official told them my story, which my robot repeated.

　　Everybody looked at me,waiting for me to show them the robot animal.

　　The President of the Star Council said,'Where is this animal?'

　　'It's not an animal,'I said.' It's a robot. But it looks just the same as a real animal.''Where is it?'

　　I touched the robot's stomach.'In there,'I answered.

　　'Bring it out.We want to see it,'the President said.

　　'Yes, sir,'I said.I looked round at all the Councillors.I was afraid to speak to these important people but I had to tell them about the danger.'When Buff saw an animal,he went crazy. I went crazy at first,too.'

　　'We heard your story.'

　　'Please listen,'I said.'This is a robot.Please remember it's not a real animal.I don't want anybody here to go crazy.'

　　'Don't try to frighten us,girl.Bring out the animal.'

　　I told the robot to open its stomach,and it opened.The little robot animal jumped on to the Star Table.

　　It looked so alive!It opened its mouth and made the special noise of that animal. It had small sharp white teeth.

　　The mouth of every Councillor fell open at the same moment.

　　There was a sudden bright light.The little animal exploded.It was gone.There was nothing left except a little wet plastic on the Star Table and a smell of burning hair.

　　The Star Council official had destroyed it with his laser gun.

　　The Councillors were getting up and shouting.Their faces were full of hate.They had the same crazy eyes as Buff. Perhaps not as bad as Buff,because the animal had only been there for a second or two and I had told them it was a robot. But,like Buff, they wanted to kill and destroy.

　　Things got worse and worse.They started breaking chairs.Some of them used broken chairs to hit people.They were going crazy,just like Buff.

　　The plan had failed.The Star Council had gone crazy.I was very frightened.What had I done?

　

9 一只动物被杀害了

　

　　牛子在沉睡。我吩咐飞船带我们去“新地球”--星际理事会所在的行星。我不打算回我父母那儿。我要直接去见上层人物。

　　几分钟后,飞船朝一个高楼林立的行星降落。很多高楼耸入云端。我以前从来没到过新地球。我只是个小行星上来的小姑娘,在这儿我觉得很卑微。

　　我们着陆了。我看到有很多人匆忙地走着。没有人停下说句话。他们太忙碌了。谁会停下来跟我这样的小姑娘说话呢?

　　而且每个人都穿着非常昂贵、时髦的衣服!我穿着那件绣着我名字“蜂鸟”的旧衣服让人觉得傻乎乎的。我对机器人说：“给我做一套特别点儿的衣服。我想使自己看上去神气些。”

　　不一会儿,我就拿到了新衣服。看上去不是太好。是灰色的,就象个旧袋子。

　　可当我一穿上,它马上就有了神采。它在我身上移动着,满是变幻的色彩。往镜子里看,我简直无法相信。我看上去神气极了!

　　当我走出飞船时,我已经谁都不怕了。

　　开始,我以为星际理事会的大楼是那些高入云端的。其实不是。我走到了地下的一间办公室才和一个警察说上话。他不相信我说的星际动物园的事,直到机器人告诉他那全是真的。机器人不会撒谎。

　　那个警察审视了我好久。最后他叫来一位星际理事会的官员。

　　他和那个警察把我带上电梯,往下走了很多层。然后他们把我领到一个房间,开始问我问题。他们想看看机器动物,可我没答应。我说只有星际理事会才能见机器动物。

　　过了三个小时,他们还在盘问我,我的眼睛都快睁不开了。我累极了。我的衣服已褪色,只剩下灰色。我不再觉得神气。我觉得象个小孩子。

　　但我没有给他们看机器动物。

　　那个官员说道：“我不相信你。银河系现在没有动物。也许从来就没有过动物。它们只是《往事追忆》里的故事。”

　　“那么,你为什么问我那么多问题?”我说。

　　“因为你的机器人说的和你一样。因为你的飞船里有个发疯的人--他现在住院了。”

　　那个官员突然站起来,把我带到电梯里。我们飞快地往下走,往下走。

　　我们出了电梯,来到一个星状的房间。我觉得有些害怕,因为我知道这是星际理事会开会的星际室。

　　理事会的男成员和女成员们进来围着星际会议桌坐下。那个官员跟他们讲了我的事,我的机器人又重复了一遍。

　　每个人都看着我,等着我给他们看机器动物。

　　星际理事会主席说话了：“动物在哪儿?”

　　“它不是动物,”我说,“它是个机器动物。不过它跟真动物一模一样。”

　　“它在哪儿?”

　　我摸着机器人的肚子。“在这儿。”我回答。

　　“拿出来。我们想看看。”主席说。

　　“是,先生。”我说。我环视了一下所有的理事。跟这些重要人物说话我有些胆怯,可我不得不告诉他们有危险。“牛子看见动物时,他发疯了。我一开始也疯了。”

　　“我们已经听了你说的事。”

　　“请听我说。”我说,“这是只机器动物。请记住它不是真动物。我不希望这儿有人发疯。”

　　“别想吓唬我们啦,姑娘。把动物拿出来。”

　　我叫机器人打开肚子,它照办了。那只小机器动物一下跳到星际会议桌上。

　　它看上去活蹦乱跳!它张开嘴,发出一声这种动物特有的叫声。它长着又小又尖的白牙齿。

　　每位理事的嘴都同时张开了。

　　突然闪过一阵亮光。这只小动物爆炸了。它死了。什么也没留下,只剩下星际会议桌上一小块湿漉漉的塑料和毛发烧焦了的味道。

　　那个星际理事会官员用激光枪把它摧毁了。

　　理事们喊叫着站了起来。他们的脸上充满憎恨。他们的眼睛和牛子发疯时一摸一样。也许没有牛子那样糟,因为动物只出现了一两秒钟,而且我已经告诉他们它只是个机器动物。然而,像牛子一样,他们也想杀,想摧毁。

　　情况越来越糟。他们开始摔椅子。有的还用破椅子打人。他们像牛子一样,发疯了。

　　计划失败了。星际理事会发疯了。我非常害怕。我都做了些什么呀?

　　　
10 Two of everything

　

　　It was a strange prison with no doors and no police to watch me.Well,I didn't know the special number for making the lifts work, so I couldn't escape by the lifts.There were stairs but it was ten kilometres straight up to get to the surface.

　　I couldn't get out.

　　I found food and water.Nobody came to see me for three days.

　　Finally a soldier arrived and took me back to the Star Room.

　　An old man with a very straight back sat at the Star Table.He was alone and looked tired.'Hummingbird,'he said and then stopped.

　　'Who are you,please?'I asked.I hadn't seen him before.

　　'I'm the new President,'he said,but he didn't sound happy about it .

　　'So the President and the Councillors are still…'

　　'Still crazyyes,'the old man said.'I think many of them will get better.They saw the animal only for a very short time.'

　　'It wasn't a real animal,'I said quickly.

　　'That didn't make any difference.You asked me who I am.I'm just one of the Star Councillors,but I wasn't in the Star Room when you showed them the animal. I was lucky. Now listen,Hummingbird.There is something I must tell you.Something difficult.'

　　'Is it about my family?'I asked,feeling afraid.

　　'No,Hummingbird.You are the only person in the Galaxy who knows where the Star Zoo is.If other people know about the Star Zoo, there will be killing. People will be killed.The Star Zoo will be destroyed.It is very important to keep the Star Zoo alive and so it is necessary to keep it secret.I 'm sorry,Hummingbird.You must stay here,ten kilometres down,all your life. I know you're a young girl and I'm sorry.'

　　'All my life?'I said.I couldn't believe it.

　　'Yes,'the old man said.'This is the planet of the Star Council so there is always work here you can do.I'm sorry.'

　　'What kind of work?'I asked.

　　'Well, everything is going crazy now.For example, we have some little children down here that nobody is taking care of.A robot is doing the job now-but little children need real humans.Would you like to try taking care of them?'

　　'OK,'I said.It was something to do.

　　I went to see the children, who were playing quietly with a robot. I laughed,because the robot was our family robot. I thought this robot and I would do something wonderful.But we could only take care of little children!

　　I sat on the floor and played with the children.They were all less than four years old.

　　They needed somebody.A few of the children were crying.They needed loving.Robots can sing and play games,but they can't love.

　　Only the Star Zoo computer can love.

　　Soon one little boy was sitting on my stomach and another boy was running round and round me.A little girl was pulling my hair and another girl was biting my finger.There was a lot of noise.

　　These children were more trouble than any animal in the Star Zoo!

　　'These girls and boys aren't going to be afraid of animals,'I said to the robot.'I can show them a robot animal and they won't go crazy. I just wish I had one.'

　　'You have,'the robot answered.'Shall I take out the other one?'

　　'What!'I shouted.The little boy fell off my stomach and began screaming. I picked him up and kissed him until the screaming changed to crying.I said,'Another robot animal?'

　　'Yes,'the robot said,touching its stomach.

　　Of course the robot had another!Robots always make two of everything.You don't have to tell them.They do it automatically.

　　The robot opened its stomach and the second robot animal jumped out. It was just like the first one.

　　The little boy stopped crying.He looked at the robot animal with big,round eyes.All the other children were looking,too.

　　The animal began to play. It tried to bite its tail and fell over its own feet. It was a funny, sweet animal. After one minute the children were round it in a circle,laughing and playing with it,just like the humans in the Star Zoo.

　　I watched them.This was very important.These children hadn't learnt to be afraid of animals because they had never heard of Earth,the Burning,or the Book of Remembering.

　　I watched and thought. I spoke softly to my robot：'If these children go on playing with this robot animal, they will never become afraid of animals. They won't go crazy.'I thought some more, and said,'But if their parents see the animal, the parents will go crazy.'

　　I thought carefully. Yes, there must be a special room in every house.A room which parents couldn't go in.A room for children only. Then children could play with robot animals in that room.

　　'That's it!'I said.'The children will still be happy to be with animals when they are parents.It might take twenty,thirty,forty years,but then-'

　　I heard the sound of somebody coming.I shouted to the robot,' Hide that animal, quick!'

　　The robot opened its stomach and the animal went inside.

　　All the children began crying.They wanted to have their wonderful animal back again!

　　It was the President.He looked round at all the crying children.'Did I do this?'he asked.

　　'No,'I answered.'Please stay.I have fantastic news for you.Listen to what just happened.'

　　The old man listened.First he was angry, then he was surprised but in the end he became very excited.

　　'Hummingbird,'the President said,'I must not see that robot animal. I don't want to go crazy.Your idea is…interesting.I think it will work.We must be very careful.We can begin with just one family and can learn from our mistakes. I think we can let you go free,Hummingbid.'

　　'You can see the animal again soon,'I promised the children,and kissed the ones that were still crying. 'So the little children really liked this animal!'the President said.'What kind of animal was it?Does the Book of Remembering talk about it?'

　　'The Book of Remembering talks about cats,'I answered.'This is a baby cat. I can't remember what the computer called it.Oh yes I do-it's called a kitten.'

　

10 做什么都是一对

　

　　这是个奇怪的牢房,没有门,也没有警察看管我。哎,我不知道能让电梯运行的密码,所以我不能从电梯逃跑。有楼梯,但要径直往上走十公里才能到地面。

　　我逃不出去。

　　我找到了食物和水。有三天没人来看我了。

　　最后,来了个士兵把我带回星际室。一位腰板挺直的老者坐在星际会议桌旁。只有他一个人,显出疲惫的样子。“蜂鸟。”他说,然后就停住了。

　　“请问您是谁?”我问。我以前没见过他。

　　“我是新主席,”他说。可听上去他并不为此感到高兴。

　　“这么说原来的主席和理事们还……”

　　“还在发疯--对,”老者说,“我想很多人会好起来的。他们看见那只动物只是一瞬间的事。”

　　“它不是真动物,”我连忙说。

　　“那没有什么不同。你问我是谁。我只是一个星际理事,但你给他们看那只动物时我不在星际室。我很幸运。现在听着,蜂鸟。我得跟你说些事。一些棘手的问题。”

　　“是我家的事吗?”我问,觉得有些害怕。

　　“不,蜂鸟。银河系中只有你知道星际动物园在哪儿。如果其他人知道了星际动物园的事,就会发生杀戮。人会被杀死,星际动物园会遭到毁灭。让星际动物园存活下去十分重要,所以需要保密。对不起,蜂鸟。你得呆在这儿,地下十公里,一辈子都呆在这儿。我知道你还是个小姑娘,对不起。”

　　“一辈子?”我说道。我简直无法相信这一切。

　　“是的。”那老者说,“这是星际理事会所在的行星,这儿总有你能做的事。对不起。”

　　“什么工作?”我问。

　　“呃,现在什么都乱了。比如,我们下面有些小孩子没人照看。现在是个机器人在照看他们--但小孩子需要真人。你愿意尽力照顾他们吗?”

　　“行!”我说。也算有事可做。

　　我去看望了孩子,他们正安静地和一个机器人玩。我笑了,因为那个机器人正是我们家的机器人。我想,这个机器人和我可以做一些奇异的事情。可我们只能照看小孩子!

　　我坐在地板上陪孩子们玩儿。他们都不到四岁。

　　他们需要人。有几个孩子在哭。他们需要爱。机器人会唱歌,会玩游戏,可它们不会去爱。

　　只有星际动物园的那台电脑会给予爱。

　　没过多久,一个小男孩就坐在了我的肚子上,另一个男孩围着我跑。一个小女孩在拽我的头发,另一个女孩咬我的手指。一片吵闹声。

　　这些孩子比星际动物园的任何动物都要麻烦!

　　“这些女孩、男孩不会怕动物的。”我对机器人说,“我可以给他们看机器动物,他们不会发疯的。我多希望我有一只机器动物啊。”

　　“你有。”机器人回答,“要我把另一只拿出来吗?”

　　“什么!”我叫道。那个小男孩从我肚子上掉了下来,开始尖叫起来。我把他抱起来,亲他,直到他的尖叫变成哭泣。我说：“还有一只机器动物?”

　　“是的。”机器人说着,摸了摸它的肚子。

　　当然啦,机器人会有另一只机器动物!机器人做任何东西都做一对。不用你告诉它们。它们会自动去做。

　　机器人打开肚子,另一只机器动物跳了出来。它跟第一只一模一样。

　　那个小男孩不哭了。他瞪大圆圆的眼睛盯着机器动物。所有其他孩子也都在看着。

　　动物开始玩耍。它想咬自己的尾巴,却摔倒了。它是只好玩、可爱的动物。很快,孩子们就把它围成了一圈,欢笑着和它玩耍,就像星际动物园的人一样。

　　我看着他们。这很有意义。这些孩子们还没有学会害怕动物,因为他们还没有听说过地球、大火灾和《往事追忆》。

　　我看着,想着,轻轻地对我的机器人说：“如果这些孩子就这么和这只机器动物玩下去,他们绝不会害怕动物。他们不会发疯。”我又想了一会儿,说道：“可要是他们的父母看见动物,父母们会发疯的。”

　　我认真地想了想,对了,每家都要有一间专门的房间,一个父母不能进去的房间。一个只给孩子用的房间。这样孩子们就可以和机器动物在房间里玩了。

　　“就这样!”我说,“当这些孩子做了父母,他们还会喜欢动物的。这可能要二十、三十、四十年,但以后--”

　　我听见有人进来的声音。我向机器人喊道：“把动物藏起来,快!”

　　机器人打开肚子,动物跑了进去。

　　所有的孩子开始哭闹。他们希望那只好玩的动物再回来!

　　来的是主席。他朝四周哭闹的孩子们看了看。“是我把他们弄哭了?”他问道。

　　“不是。”我回答,“请呆会儿。我要告诉您一件奇妙的事。您听听刚才都发生了什么。”

　　老人听着。开始他有些生气,后来有些惊奇,但最后他变得非常激动。

　　“蜂鸟,”主席说,“我决不看那只机器动物。我不想发疯。你的想法……有意思。我觉得能行。我们得特别小心。我们可以从一家开始,然后吸取教训。我想我们可以放你了,蜂鸟。”

　　“你们很快又能见到那只动物了。”我答应孩子们,亲了亲还在哭的几个。

　　“这么说小孩子们真喜欢这只动物喽!”主席说,“是种什么动物?《往事追忆》里提到了吗?”

　　“《往事追忆》里提到猫,”我回答,“这是只小猫。我记不住电脑是怎么叫它的了。噢,我想起来了--它叫猫咪。”

　　　
